content/post/2024-10-16-2-element-yagi-flag-pole.md, before:

---
title: "2-Element Yagi on the Flag Pole"
subtitle:
date: 2024-10-16
tags: ['yagi', 'antenna', 'flagpole']
draft: false
---

### Tilt-up Flag Pole
I figured out to do a tilt-up flag pole
against the house.
It sits on a stake in the garden,
and is secured to the house with paracord
in an eyelet and hook screwed into the side of the roof.

### 2-Element Yagi
I built a new 2-element yagi using an
[online calculator](https://k7mem.com/Ant_Yagi_VHF_Quick.html)
It tuned OK with the banana-clip adapter directly connected
to the driven element.
I first tuned the dipole,
and then added the reflector element.
As predicted,
it shifted the tuning slightly,
so I trimmed the driven element to retune.
The nice thing is that the spacings and sizes
of the original elements don't change
as you add more director elements,
so I calculated it with 2 or 3 directors,
but put none in for the first
iteration.
I can add more elements later.

{{< gallery >}}
{{< figure link="/img/2024/2024-10-16-yagi-1.jpg" caption="PVC attachment" >}}
{{< figure link="/img/2024/2024-10-16-yagi-2.jpg" caption="banana-clip connection" >}}
{{< figure link="/img/2024/2024-10-16-yagi-3.jpg" caption="flag pole" >}}
{{< figure link="/img/2024/2024-10-16-yagi-4.jpg" caption="yagi on pole" >}}
{{< figure link="/img/2024/2024-10-16-yagi-5.jpg" caption="secured to house" >}}
{{< figure link="/img/2024/2024-10-16-yagi-6.jpg" caption="cord to ground spike" >}}
{{< /gallery >}}

<!--more-->

Commit message:

more info on flag pole, yagi

content/post/2024-10-16-2-element-yagi-flag-pole.md, after:

---
title: "2-Element Yagi on the Flag Pole"
subtitle:
date: 2024-10-16
tags: ['yagi', 'antenna', 'flagpole']
draft: false
---

### Tilt-up Flag Pole
I figured out to do a tilt-up flag pole
against the house reaching 25 feet into the air.
It sits on a stake in the garden,
and is secured to the house with paracord
in an eyelet and hook screwed into the side of the roof.

### 2-Element Yagi
I built a new 2-element yagi using an
[online calculator](https://k7mem.com/Ant_Yagi_VHF_Quick.html)
It tuned OK with the banana-clip adapter directly connected
to the driven element.
I first tuned the dipole,
and then added the reflector element.
As predicted,
it shifted the tuning slightly,
so I trimmed the driven element to retune.
The nice thing is that the spacings and sizes
of the original elements don't change
as you add more director elements,
so I calculated it with 2 or 3 directors,
but put none in for the first
iteration.
I can add more elements later.

I gave it a try to reach 985
with the TYT TH-9800 running 50W.
It was scratchy,
but copy-able.
I have more flag pole sections
ordered to make it a little higher.

{{< gallery >}}
{{< figure link="/img/2024/2024-10-16-yagi-1.jpg" caption="PVC attachment" >}}
{{< figure link="/img/2024/2024-10-16-yagi-2.jpg" caption="banana-clip connection" >}}
{{< figure link="/img/2024/2024-10-16-yagi-3.jpg" caption="flag pole" >}}
{{< figure link="/img/2024/2024-10-16-yagi-4.jpg" caption="yagi on pole" >}}
{{< figure link="/img/2024/2024-10-16-yagi-5.jpg" caption="secured to house" >}}
{{< figure link="/img/2024/2024-10-16-yagi-6.jpg" caption="cord to ground spike" >}}
{{< /gallery >}}

<!--more-->
