---
title: "985 Workbench: 2024-10-07"
subtitle:
date: 2024-10-07
tags: ['w3gms', 'workbench', 'net', '985']
draft: false
---

### Week in radio
- I saw some antennas at the Ham Fest, but I couldn't bring myself to buy any.
  I'll build.
- I passed extra at the Ham Fest
  - I guess enough workbench discussion sunk into my brain.
  - Found I can download and search a copy of the 
    [entire ULS database](https://www.fcc.gov/uls/transactions/daily-weekly)
    like some of those other helpful websites
    that show available callsigns.
- POTA along the Susquehanna River.
  - Normal FT8 to get to 10 contacts.
  - 1 CW contact, and it wasn't painful.
  - I tested out my newest printed EFHW antenna winder.
- Running and comparing Meshtastic and APRS more
  - Why use it?

### Other News
- WA3VEE, Ron, PA QSO Party this weekend.
- KC3SCY, Luke, switched his loose couple radio from diode to cat whisker.
- KC3ZSJ, Gary, is playing with new antennas.
- W3FES, Fred, has a new FT-60R
- AF3Z, Jim, is headed to Cornwall Ranger Station for PA QSO Party

### Questions
- KC3SZO, Chris: How can I overcome some terrain in the way of my RF?
  - WA3VEE, Ron: Antenna in the attic
  - NA3CW, Chuck: VHF isn't exactly line-of-sight, so there is hope.
  - KC3WWC, John: Lower YAGI inside had advantages
    over a higher outside ground plane quarter wave.
- AA3LH, Leon: Let's confirm repeater settings for this old radio
  and new antenna going in the car.
- KC3WWC, John:
  - I could change my callsign now.
  - I've only used this one for a year, so not super-attached.
  - For contesting, I see the benefit of a shorter call,
    so I might ultimately consider phonetic and morse weight.
  - How did you choose your vanity call? What strategies should I consider?
  - NA3CW, Chuck: initials.
  - W8CRW, CR: initials.
  - AA3LH, Leon: initials, and wanted an "A" call.
  - AF3Z, Jim: assigned by FCC. Consider how it sounds in CW.
  - WA3VEE, Ron: assigned, and sounds cool.
    - He also has K3DTS for the campus location of his old club.
    - quick and simple for CW
    - 1-by-1 is for special events.
    - easy to understand, so stay clear of confusing letters; V, C, Z, etc.
    - sound in sideband: normal or phonetic.
  - KC3OOK, Bill: assigned.
    - catching phonetic for DX
    - NA3NA was catchy.
    - KC3QQD is funny: Quack Quack Duck
  - Callsign ideas:
    - KD3FN
    - KB3VI
    - KC3VI
    - AA3WW
    - AA3KK

<!--more-->
