---
title: "985 Workbench: 2024-12-09"
subtitle:
date: 2024-12-09
tags: ['985', 'workbench', 'w3gms', 'net']
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio
- Monitoring some technical discussions
  - tips on satellite repeaters, including listening duplex
  - some radios have talk-around feature,
    which I've only done accidentally
    when misconfiguring the radio to talk on the repeater output
- FT Challenge over the weekend
  - lots of activity on FT4, FT8, and subbands outside the usual
  - found `wsjtx-improved` available on my Debian machine:
    - better colors, location labels, and filters
- Learning obvious things about AllStar last week:
  - my node is simplex, so while the net is transmitting,
    I can't throw any DTMF at the node to control it
  - minor delay resulted in lots of missed prefixes
### News From Others
- W8CRW, CR: setting up for 10m
- KC3SCY, Luke: doing some good work on 10m
- KC3SQI, Wayne: POTA and 10m
- AF3Z, Jim:
  - worked some of Europe on CW
  - cleaning up radio stuff, workbench, dealing with excess hunks of wire

### Questions
- KC3TMZ, Matt: Looking to upgrade the coax run through a window.
  Should he get an MFJ passthrough or better recommendations?
  - a couple people have some homebrew panels like the MFJ
  - some have the MFJ panel
  - others suggest passing a barrel adapter through the wall
  - KC3WWC, John: there's thin coax and flat coax for the purpose

- KC3SQI, Wayne: The battery for the radio's memory only lasts a couple weeks,
  so he runs a 12V wall wart to keep it powered,
  but also has a 35-amp 13.8V supply he wants to use.
  He isolates them with relays, but is there a solar controller way to switch.
  Blocking diodes? Recommendations?
  - WA3KFT, John: his 7300 doesn't have that problem.
    He uses a 12V bus on the desk.
    His 12V bus is powered by AC power supply on one side,
    and a 12V battery on the other side.
    so there's always power.
    A blocking diode would need to be 30Amp.
  - KC3RFG, Jim: The manual says power it a couple hours at least monthly
    to maintain that battery which holds clock and settings.
    Memories are on the SD card.

<!--more-->
