---
title: "985 Workbench: 2024-10-14"
subtitle:
date: 2024-10-14
tags: ['985', 'w3gms', 'workbench', 'net']
draft: false
---

### My week in Radio
- I saw aurora for the first time, and I got some nice photos.
- I visited K3IR tower sight in Mount Joy during PA QSO party
  - I listened to people contesting, but didn't participate.
- TYT TH-9800: 50W into the tape measure yagi,
  tried it on the roundtable, still have work to do
- I threw my main 71-foot EFRW higher into another tree.
- I watched my flagpole and yagi in the wind
  - walked it down while I had a kid here to help
  - scoping a new location for it as a tilt-up attached to the house
  - collecting pieces for some experiments in engineering
### Questions
- W8CRW, CR:
  - National Electronics Museum is hosting a class for general license.
  - How far from the mast should a vertical yagi antenna be installed?
  - Can it be installed 45-degrees to be used for both horizontal and vertical?
    - WA3VEE, Ron: some have had success at 45 degrees for satellites.
    - KC3SQI, Wayne: 45-degree will lose you 1.5dB
- WA3VEE, Ron: what is the ideal thickness for a bus-bar
  to which you're mounting a lightning arrester.
  - KC3RFG, Jim:
    - 1/4-inch minimum. thicker won't hurt anything.
    - mechanically strong (bolted) instead of soldered
    - woven ground strap is best, but 6AWG stranded is good.
  - NA3CW, Chuck:
    - avoid inductance, so use strap or bar, not wire
    - no right angles, no coils, no spirals
- KC3RFG, Jim: Hearing ignition noise on HF on battery or on truck power.
  How best can one eliminate that noise?
  - KC3SQI, Wayne: Remove the mast from the coax
    and see if you still have the noise.
    If it's still there, then it's coming from power cables.
    Try a better ground directly to the battery.
    On vehicles that rust,
    bolts don't ground so well after a while,
    so then you get lots of grounds connecting back
    through the antenna.
  - KC3KZB, Aaron: go for a short ground,
    and keep ground wire away from ignition wires
- KC3SQI, Wayne: What's the mechanical strength for 1.5-inch conduit?
  - WA3VEE, Ron: See Ugly's Electrical Reference.
  - KC3RFG, Jim: that's right.
- KC3WWC. John: I like that I can build my transformers and cut, measure,
  and test wire antennas,
  Is it practical to build, iterate, expand a homebrew yagi?
  - NA3CW, Chuck:
    - blatant plagarism: they've been around for a long time.
    - modeling programs, manuals, existing antennas.
    - different goals: gain, bandwidth, front-to-back ratio
      examples in the antenna book
    - software
    - moxon antenna: 2 element yagi with bent ends, massive front-to-back ratio
      - great for direction-finding: forward to get in the neighborhood,
        then reverse to find the null where it disappears
      - not much gain though
- W8CRW, CR: Is there a program for windows to map out a computer network?
  - W3DIB, Greg:
    - there are lots of tools to probe and fingerprint machines
      to try to disclose the host OS.
    - also ping, angryping, etc.

<!--more-->
