---
title: "985 Workbench: 2024-08-12"
subtitle:
date: 2024-08-12
tags: ['985', 'w3gms', 'workbench', 'net']
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio

- Watching APRS
  - trying different radios/antennas w/ aprsdroid
  - slim-jim working better with any radio
  - watching logs and better-understanding the structure of the packets
- [N3TWT](https://n3twt.org/) repeater (South Mountain) looks good 
  for "off grid" communication
  when camping in Cumberland county
  - heard lots of "volunteer" activity
  - also heard N3FYI & N3KZ
- moving in September, so scheming new antennas
- maybe noticing a bug on AUBS firmware on Quansheng.
  I have copy of code to read and see about a fix.
- I tried another firmware, but missing the killer feature: scan on start

### Notes from Others

- Everyone went to Kimberton Hamfest
- AF3Z: wait 30 years, and that shiny new radio will be affordable.

### Questions

- W3JAM, Jeff:
  - using a generator, how important is ground?
    - KC3RFG, Jim:
      - already grounded if connected to home.
      - job site may require a ground rod, but doesn't do much.
      - for field day, generator is the only "reference", so no need for ground
      - modern generators have GFI built-in.
    - NA3CW, Chuck:
      - don't let generator run down and stop under load,
        because it'll degauss the residual magnetism
  - Heathkit SB102 w/ 6146B tubes. It wouldn't tune up.
    is there concern with using 6146W tubes?
    - NA3CW, Chuck: 6146W is the ruggedized version. it should work.
      neutralize, and you're good to go.
    - AF3Z, Jim: be sure to check the tubes with a tube-tester
- AF3Z, Jim:
  - cable management while being able to access and change.
    beat the rats' nest. Are there good systems for cable management?
    - WA3VEE, Ron:
      - best if you can walk behind the desk
      - everything slides on felt feet, so must have some slack loosely coiled.
    - NA3CW, Chuck:
      - desk 90 degrees to the wall for easy access to the back.
      - garden velcro: can be snipped to any length you need.
    - KC3JAM, Jeff:
      - military systems require being able to get behind things.
- KC3OOK, Bill:
  - Has anyone used DragonOS / Linux?
    - NA3CW, Chuck: Mint, but not Dragon OS.

<!--more-->
