---
title: 985 Workbench: 2024-07-08
subtitle:
date: 2024-07-08
tags: ['985', 'w3gms', 'net', 'workbench']
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio
- I had time off, so lots of Parks on the Air
  - The entire Susquehanna River is considered US-4567
    as the Captain John Smith Chesapeake Trail
  - I scouted some spots along the river.
  - I've been trying SSB P2P contacts first, then digital modes.
- I found Ron, WA3VEE, and other familiar faces at Harrisburg Hamfest.
- I got 9 of the 13 colonies on SSB and FT8, usually at parks.
- That adjacent net on W3HZU was still a problem on my Quansheng HTs.
  - I'm trying the similarly cheap QRZ-1 Explorer tonight. 
    It's almost as bad.
  - I'm also trying the tape-measure yagi right now for some gain toward 985
    and rejection toward 970.

### Questions of the Night
- CR, W8CRW: What would an air compressor from UK (230V, 50Hz) do on 240V/60Hz?
  - Induction motor may run 20% faster, out of spec, wear out more quickly
  - Starting capacitor for the motor may not be compatible
  - May be able to introduce a phase change transformer
- Bill, KC3OOK: NVIS experiences for close contacts?
  - Jack, K3YVQ: good experience with "trapezoid-shaped" antenna wire:
    horizontal with ends dropped at an angle.
  - Harvey, KC3NZT:
    - half-wave above ground for better DX.
    - a second low antenna may not be worth the trouble of installing.
    - wait for a quiet time and get through to your target contact.
  - Jim, KC3RFG: Got 12mi to Philadelphia. Maybe that was ground-wave.
  - Jim, AF3Z: 10ft off the ground, a couple hundred miles
  - Chuck, NA3CW: "intentional NVIS" = 6ft off ground the whole way
    with counterpoise directly below,
    parallel to radiator.
  - Harvey, KC3NZT:
    - model verticals in EZNEC software
    - see lobes in radiation pattern
    - can be quite NVIS at some lengths
- Jack, K3YVQ: Mounting and grounding an antenna on a kayak.
  - Harvey, KC3NZT: tape on the underside as a ground plane
  - Leon, AA3LH: glue a plate to the bottom
  - John, KC3WWC: float a wire on something floaty to keep it on the surface,
    see Coastal Waves and Wires on Youtube.
  - Wayne, KC3SQI: install foil tape like transducer for a fish finder

<!--more-->
