---
title: "985 Workbench: 2024-12-02"
subtitle:
date: 2024-12-02
tags: ['985', 'workbench', 'w3gms', 'net']
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio
- Built an Allstar node
  from a PI 4
  and a USB-C radio dongle
  to reach 985
- Stumbled into and recognized some Olivia-8/250 on 20M
- Lots of ISS repeater traffic at convenient times
  on my good ol' 1/4 wave antenna in the tree
- Got the radio blog up-to-date with all my adventures
- Listened to Jim, AF3Z, talk about sideswiper keys,
  and I might give it a try
  as i've changed the way I've been using
  my iambic paddle to almost never squeeze.
- looking forward to [FT Challege](https://www.rttycontesting.com/ft-challenge/)
*** Questions:
- KC3WWC, John:
  I have the basic Allstar node configured.
  Should I leave it connected to 985 all the time?
  I recognize some of the repeater features,
  so what other cool things should I have this node do?
  - W3CRW, CR:
    - using it for a few years
    - not always connected
    - switch to other nodes
    - always disconnect from one node before connecting to another
      to avoid linking.
    - has a node in 2 vehicles to supplement the reception.
  - WA3VEE, Ron:
    - best thing for 985
    - not connected all the time
    - uses HTs anywhere in the house
    - operated at long distances
    - be careful to not cross-link
    - in vermont, connected to 53085, simplex 446.100, unknowingly connected
      the repeater to the entire vermont network
  - W3DIB, Greg:
    - Joe is adamant about avoiding crosslinks to other repeaters.
    - other danger: if you are always connected,
      someone else could link to you and cross-link.
      - prevent other nodes from linking to me.
      - disallow every other nodes
    - computer security:
      - keep the node up-to-date and secured.
      - it used to be ancient versions of debian and asterisk
      - now it's much better....allstar 3
      - careful about forwarding ports to it.
      - uses a VM, flipperphone. will try to get a tutorial together.
    - W3CRW, CR:
      - supermon on the node allows cool monitoring with web access
      - On Tuesday's at 20:00, there is a tech net on the East Coast Reflector.
        The net usually runs a couple of hours.
        You can connect, to the Reflector via Allstar on 27339, 45225 or 45192.
- KC3RFG, Jim:
  When you setup a station and all the gadgets in the RF chain,
  where does a wattmeter prefer to be?
  - NA3CW, Chuck:
    - it should be between transmitter and tuner,
      so you can tell when the tuner is right
    - sounds like bad cable or other installation problems?
    - RF getting back through the chain?
  - KC3RFG will check that jumpers are good
- W3DIB, Greg:
  On RF now, impressions of the NanoVNA?
  - W3QP, Tim:
    - 100% worth the money
    - depends on use-case
    - needs calibration all the time
    - can be fragile
    - great for building ununs, etc.
    - dedicated VNA can be much more convenient
    - uses nano vna saver python script to capture everything
  - KC3WWC, John:
    - so much cool stuff to measure, so opens up a whole world
    - lots of more features to learn on youtube every week
    - as a technical person, you'll have a lot of fun.
  - KC3NZT, Harvey:
    - lots more data than a regular analyzer
    - maybe doesn't need recalibrated all the time.
      - use saved calibrations
  - KC3RFG, Jim:
    - calibrated for each band, saved it, and recalls them.
    - does lots more connected to the computer

<!--more-->
