---
title: "985 Workbench: 2024-07-22"
subtitle:
date: 2024-07-22
tags: ['w3gms', 'workbench', '985', 'net']
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio
- Great to see everyone at the breakfast, especially Luke's loose couplers.
- POTA after the breakfast at Marsh Creek with Vic, KC3TYX
  - 20m was the place to be,
    but 2 of us operating, 
    so we had to take shifts
    with our own radios.
- Prime Day Shopping
  - microcord
  - TYT HT for 10w crossband repeater
    - I'm using it now as the repeater
    - Less tethered to the outside antenna
    - Top of the radio/sma is 50C after repeating for an hour on power
  - TinySA
  - Raspberry Pi Zero W kits
- APRSDroid: phone & radio
  - email gateway
  - POTA spotting

### Notes from Others
- [solarham.com](solarham.com)
- Reading Ham Fest coming up
- VE session at Stateline Radio Club

### Questions
- KC3WWC: What's cool about APRS?
  - APRS weather station
  - PWS monitor app to find weather stations near me
  - Other gateway frequencies?
  - Check with CCAR/ARES/RACES nets for their uses.
- KC3WWC: In Galenium detector,
  how does one know when the cat whisker is right?
  - Joe, W3GMS
    - put on headphones
    - move spring arm with stiff wire (cat whisker)
    - touch it to the galenium
    - move around to find the hot spot where it's louder
    - germanium diode conducts at very low voltages, so easy
    - loose couplers don't work so well in a crystal set, since it's lossy
    - spark era - 1913
    - before galenium, there was a tube with metal filings, a "coherer".
      - activate a buzzer
      - tap that would fall and reset the coherer
    - after galenium, then audion tube
    - imperative to have a very big antenna to capture
      as much signal as possible.
    - drive diode into forward current
    - Heathkit made a collectible kit
      - tightly coupled
      - voltage increase in the second coil
      - higher Q, so could be made more selective
    - Luke, KC3SCY, counted 20 different stations one night
  - Chuck, NA3CW
    - fox-hole radio: rusty razor blade, lead pencil, coil, safety pin,
      oatmeal box, wire
    - galena: ore of lead sulfide
    - immerse the galena in base of lead solder
    - grope around quietly to find magic spot where it works best
    - same thing with foxhole radio
    - uses oxide for detecting, not stainless
    - galena has 0.4V drop, like germanium diode
  - Ron, WA3VEE
    - has a marconi cat whiskey receiver
    - 0.4V can be converted to dBm, and it's a pretty large signal required
    - predates any amplification
- WA3VEE: What is the most important measure of solar activity we need to consider?
  - most profound affect on propagation?
  - KC3RFP: a-index (9 or lower) k-index (5 or lower)
  - Tamitha Skov [website](https://www.spaceweatherwoman.com/)
    and [youtube](https://www.youtube.com/c/TamithaSkov)

<!--more-->
