---
title: "985 Workbench: 2024-07-29"
subtitle:
date: 2024-07-29
tags: ['985', 'workbench', 'net']
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio
- During last workbench,
  I used the TYT HT in crossband for the whole net.
  It gets hot but works.
- I found a bug in the Aubs firmware
  on my Quansheng radios.
  It skipped lots of my repeaters for a day.
- Trying the TIDRadio TD-H8 tonight on M/5W power
  with the good old tape measure Yagi.
  It's sounding really nice here.
- On linux, I found `cwcp` for CW training.
  I run it at 20wpm with a very slow 20-dot gap.
- I've been trying APRS with QRZ-1,
  an 8-year-old Nexus phone,
  and a btech APRS cable.
- POTA in York:
  - I had a terrible time throwing into trees that were too high.
  - Resorted to an inverted-V EFHW,
    2ft-10ft off the ground with telescoping fishing pole.

### Questions
- KB3ILS, Keith
  - How does a hack learn to read basic schematics:
    conventional or electron current flow?
  - Tips for reading schematics?
  - Chuck, NA3CW
    - Except when dealing with tubes, work in conventional current.
    - Diode and transistor arrows
      show positive to negative (conventional) flow.
    - Inside tubes the electron flow is shown negative to positive.
    - Reading schematics:
      - Look up different circuit functions
        - Amplifier
        - Audio oscillator
        - etc
      - recognize those groupings as a "block diagram".
      - learn to read like a block of functions
      - trace with your finger
  - WA3VEE, Ron
    - Think of circuit groups as mechanical operations.
- KC3YIG, Dave
    - Recommendations for distributing power to multiple radios?
    - Astron powering 2 kenwoods: 25w and 65w, 2m and HF base stations.
  - W3QP, Tim
    - Ham Radio Workbench has a nice
      [power distribution block](https://www.hamradioworkbench.com/dc-power-strip.html)
      as a kit:
      - 1 anderson power polse for input
      - 5 anderson power poles for output
  - WA3VEE, Ron
    - PowerWorx gear for power poles
  - KC3NZT, Harvey:
    - Anderson power pole has become standard in ham radio.
- KC3NZT, Harvey
  - Operating internationally, in Canada, do we just add "/ve3" to call?
  - W3QP, Tim
    - That's right for Canada,
      as long as you're there temporarily, up to 180 days or so.
### Upcoming Hamfest
Reading Radio Club
will host their hamfest
in Sinking Springs.

<!--more-->
