---
title: "985 Workbench: 2024-08-19"
subtitle:
date: 2024-08-19
tags: ['985', 'w3gms', 'net', 'workbench']
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio

- Iambic Keying
  - Tap, instead of squeeze,
    since I'm having trouble releasing the paddles in time.
  - [Squeeze Keying at Ham Radio QRP](https://www.hamradioqrp.com/2017/10/squeeze-keying-iambic-mode-operation.html)
- I started patching and compiling my own firmware for my Quansheng radios
  - building and flashing works
  - my minor change had no effect
- New R1CBU 0.22.0 firmware for x6100
  - whole firmware is like a new radio
  - minor fixes and conveniences
    - peak marger on S-meter
    - nicer scrolling on waterfall
- POTA by the Susquehanna River in Marietta
  - I heard some lighthouse events
  - I spoke to someone on a nuclear ship in Baltimore
  - I ran into a fellow ham and ex-professor from 25 years ago, Paul Ross, W3FIS.
  - It's so quiet away from my normal desk of computers,
    I thought noise reduction was stuck ON
- 10m looking pretty open today to California
- I've been keeping the blog up-to-date,
  and I use this net to document my week.


### Topics

- Jeff, W3JAM, is having trouble with an MFJ antenna analyzer
  that's not being reliable compared to his other analyzers.
- Bill, KC3OOK, is preparing for the weekend's antenna party.
- Jim, AF3Z, participated in the QRP Skeeter Hunt
  with his Penntech, 68ft of wire, and a tuner.
  5W on 40M got him 25 CW contacts.
- Luke, KC3SCY, is building a transmitter from 1929.
- Tim, W3QP, is planning some hiking and SOTA in Virginia.
- Harvey, KC3NZT, was in PEI (I think) doing a little HF
  and listing to ship traffic.
- Question from Jeff, W3JAM: What is Supermon and how does one get started?
  - It's a web-based interfacet to an Allstar node.
  - ClearNode app runs on Android.
- Question from Harvey, KC3NZT: In 120V wiring,
  does a voltage between 0V and 120V mean a broken or loose ground or common?
  - KC3RFG: Yes! The AC world is different from the DC world.

<!--more-->
