---
title: "985 Workbench: 2024-12-30"
subtitle:
date: 2024-12-30
tags: ['w3gms', 'net', '985', 'workbench']
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio
- ISS on scan, so I caught part of an image
  - passes are a bit early right now, and low
- Nice weather
  - local POTA including a couple solid CW
  - some maintenance of the VHF antennas
- Noticed today I can disable the tuner on my random wire antenna
  and still get OK SWR
  - sounds like loss to me
  - but putting 5W into the wire
    is still getting identifiable weak signals to Europe, Alaska, etc.
- Reading the AllStar manuals
- Adding 4:1 balun to my list of things to build
  - delta loop
  - Rybakov vertical

### Others
- KC3SCY, Luke:
  - crystal receiver
- W8CRW, CR:
  - working on a 10m antenna
- W1RC, Mike:
  - likes SWR tools, since antennas are the final frontier
- AF3Z, Jim:
  - took the Kenwood mobile out of the car to replace the memory battery
  - how's my audio?
- NA3CW, Chuck:
  - Jim is low
  - arcing in a band switch, so disconnected 10m taps to avoid problems
    - added some feed line and changed antennas,
      so maybe time to try fixing it to do 10 again.
    - works now
  - finding some bad solder joints in some coax.
  - been in repair mode
- KC3OOK, Bill:
  - working on Joe's tower again soon
- WA3VEE, Ron:
  - presenting in Pottstown on Friday on antenna analyzers
  - May be visiting the field day site
- KC3YIG, Dave:
  - picked up Alaska
- W3QP, Tim:
  - 2 SOTAs in Western PA
  - new Retevis 25W radio
- KV3JGB, Matt:
  - fixing some lines to get an antenna up in some trees
    - it's working
    - first contact on 10M
    - also 15M for a rag chew
  - starting CWOps on Friday
- KB3ZIM, Bob:
  - published in latest QST, page 20
- KC3NZT,
  - testing coax with NanoVNA

### Questions
- KC3SWC, Charles:
  - How do 12V batteries apply to Winter Field Day?
    li-ion, lead acid, deep cycle lead acid,
    AGM, gold cart batteries, lifepo4.
    What are the advantages and disadvantages of each.
    - WA3VEE, Ron:
      - at field day, we won't be charging any batteries inside
      - uses AGM and lifepo4 for radios, no trouble in cold weather
      - AGM vents, so ensure it has ventilation
    - W3QP, Tim:
      - lifepo4 is a good choice for amateur radio
        - lighter
        - output amperage is usually only 2x capacity
    - W3MFB, Mike:
      - used marine cells lots
- W3FES, Fred:
  - Troubleshooting a switching power supply.
  - Rated for 15 amps.
  - Running a radio, 15W output
  - Voltage drops to 8V.
  - What can he do to diagnose the problem in the power supply?
  - WA3VEE, Ron:
    - need to look at the manual to see ratings
  - NA3CW, Chuck:
    - switching power supplies are usually working or dead

<!--more-->
