---
title: "985 Workbench: 2024-12-16"
subtitle:
date: 2024-12-16
tags: ['985', 'w3gms', 'workbench', 'net']
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio
- ARRL 10m contest:
  - 13 CW contacts logged on paper
  - iambic keyer set to 20 wpm somewhat confidently
  - still relying on radio to decode for me

### News from Others
- KC3YSM, Steve: 10M contest - Spain, Colombia, Poland,
  France, Missisissippi, Florida
- K3FHA, John:
  - using a voltage reduce box to power an old piece of equipment
  - swapping meters with salvage equipment from ebay
- KC3NZT, Harvey: 10M contest
- AF3Z, Jim: weekend sprintathon with SKCC.
- KC3SCY, Luke: listening to DX (Ohio) AM MW on his crystal set.
- KV3JGB, Matt: starting a morse class

### Questions
- W3JAM, Jeff:
  - Unsatisfied with antenna mount on chimney.
  - Glen Martin Engineering used to have roof towers.
  - Looking for some non-penetrating roof mounts: cinder blocks or sandbags.
  - Has anyone used any Martin or Carlson roof towers?
  - Trying to mount a 70ft tower.
  - WA3VEE, Ron: sending a link to an eham article.
- AF3Z, Jim: When is the voltage rating on a fuse important?
  20A, 250V vs 20A, 35V?
  - KC3RFG, Jim:
    - the voltage rating is the max
      at which it'll properly
      react when it opens.
      If voltage rating isn't high enough,
      it might not melt far enough
      and still be able to arc
      at the higher voltage.
  - NA3CW, Chuck:
    - it may have more physical features
      like casing material,
      spring loading to break the connection more,
      or interrupting current quickly.
  - WA3VEE, Ron: Look for PDF called "Fuseology".
- WA3VEE, Ron: What do we tell new HAMs?
  - WA3VEE, Ron: HT is pretty useless.
  - KC3RFG, Jim: Resist the urge to buy,
    but collect lots of info before
    making too many decisions.
  - KC3YIG, Dave:
    - Don't by afraid to ask questions of a good group.
    - Let people know if you're looking for equipment,
      so others can help you get started.
  - KC3YSM, Steve: Find yourself an elmer, and ask questions on 985.
  - NA3CW, Chuck:
    - The perfect is the enemy of getting on the air.
    - Good enough is good enough.
    - Get used equipment.
    - Borrow equipment.
    - Don't make any big investments before you know what you want.
  - K3FHA, John: ARRL has an operating manual with advice.
  - WA3VEE, Ron: Even old operating manuals are useful.
  - KC3WWC, John: Don't worry about what doesn't work. Get some wire in the air.
  - KC3OOK, Bill: Hams are helpful, so ask questions.
  - WA3VEE, Ron: Listen to the radio, learn, get help.

<!--more-->
