---
title: "985 Workbench: 2024-08-05"
subtitle:
date: 2024-08-05
tags: ['985', 'workbench', 'w3gms', 'net']
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio
- Mobile APRS is proving to be really short-range
  - Couldn't even spot myself outside at Sam Lewis up on the hill
  - Cycled with it, but no traffic
  - Needs a real antenna
- Some POTA
  - Sam Lewis, US-1418
    - found the leading park activator, kn3a, in my spot. :)
    - storms rolling in, so called it quits
    - watched 20m slam shut: decoding 30 signals to 4
  - Susquehanna River, US-4567
    - Columbia Riverfront Park that's open after sunset
    - spanned into the next day...again,
      so had an incomplete and a complete activation.
- Got an FT8 contact to Israel with 5W from home: first Asia for me.
- Weekly RTTY Test and FT4 sprint
- Ham radio software may not be the most efficient
  - `fldigi` left running but disconnected from radio
    ran CPU at 95C doing nothing.
  - GridTracker likes to burn cpu too when left running.
- AB3AP, Mike, on EZ-Hang slingshot: I've given up the slingshot
  and just swing my throw line by hand.
- KB3ILS, Keith: there are scripts online for 3d-modeling any size knob you need.

### Questions
- W3JAM, Jeff:
  - Does anyone have experience using Drake TR4CW on AM?
  - Can you add a noise blanker to this radio?
    - Noise blanker would alleviate pulsing noise from electric fence.
    - Jeff will be getting the entire manual library on CD,
      which will have information.
- KC3OOK, Bill:
  - How do you connect a NanoVNA to an open wire feed line?
  - WA3VEE: Would you need a balun to start getting close to impedance
    to match the expected 50 ohm?
  - W3JAM: Doesn't matter so much where it's tuned,
    since you use it with a tuner anyway.
  - NA3CW:
    - You don't want it to be resonant anyway,
      because being resonant will give you the largest extremes to tune
      when trying to move to other bands.
    - NanoVNA may be limited on the impedance it can read.
    - Dipole should be at least as long as half wave + a little
    - He extended a wire to get it to tune where it wouldn't.
- WA3VEE, Ron:
  - SOCO connectors carry 208V. When rewiring those connectors,
    what's a good caulk-like sealant that could be used for "potting"
    the inside of the plugs?
    - Plain bathroom caulk can be conductive.
    - Silicon may breakdown at lower voltage than needed too.

<!--more-->
