---
title: "985 Workbench: 2024-07-15"
subtitle:
date: 2024-07-15
tags: ['985', 'w3gms', 'workbench', 'net']
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio

- I saw Ron's photos from Sussex County Ham Fest
  - I only go looking for connectors and gadgets, not real gear.
- Enjoyed Luke's talk at breakfast
  - cat whisker and spark gap
  - reminds me of the books I read as an elementary student
    - crystal radios
    - want to build one again and see about tuning it for medium and shortwave
- POTA: Caledonia
  - used the 12.5M EFRW instead of EFHW
  - afternoon, 40m was dead
  - 20m and 15m was very busy with SSB contesters
  - 15, 17, 20: all EU, and very little local, 
    via FT8 and SSB, but they couldn't hear me.
    - atmospheric diode?
  - only made 4 contacts in the hour I tried
- Tape Measure YAGI is amazing for hearing the workbench
  - I didn't want to need to pick a direction,
    but seems OK for these longer sessions
- Purchased an inexpensive variac
  - so now I need an old radio with some questionable capacitors. :)
- I'll be at the breakfast, then finding a park to activate afterward.
- writing a bit for the blog in down times

### Others' News
- Ron, WA3VEE
  - Sussex County Ham Fest
  - [photos](https://wa3vee.smugmug.com/071424-SUSSEX-CO-NJ-HAMFEST/n-hBft2d)
- Luke, KC3SCY
  - spark gap and cat whisker
    - receiver working
  - GOJO cleaner without abrasive is good for cleaning wood
- Keith, KB3ILS
  - Lots of extended propagation on 2m
- Jack, K3YVQ
  - listening to longer-distance simplex on 2m calling frequency
- Jim, AF3Z
  - some CW
  - contests upcoming
    - IARU HF contest
    - SKCC Sprintathon
    - Flight of the Bumblebees QRP

### Question
  - Perseids meteor storm coming this month,
    What's involved in working meteor scatter?
    - Widen topic to: Any special propagation modes?
    - Jim: e-skip?
    - Row, WA3VEE:
      - Tropospheric ducting
        - temperature inversion
        - listen to FM broadcast in the morning
          - difficult to hear local
          - hearing much longer distances
          - it's a mess of overlap
          - means there's an opening in 2m
        - [dxinfocentre.com](https://dxinfocentre.com) for tropo forecasts
      - Meteor showers
        - listen to 6m.
    - Chuck, NA3CW
      - Signal around the world
        - 1-2 second delay to hear your own "hello"
        - Japan at 10w
        - 1-way propagation
          - atmosphere is turbulent
          - photons strike into ionized air molecules and electrons
          - the wave jiggles the electrons in the air, and they retransmit
            - this "reflection"
          - signals going the other direction may hit different conditions
            along the way.
    - KC3WWC: antenna orientation?
    - W1RC, Mike:
      - Digital modes for studying propagation, since it can be monitored
    - WA3VEE, Ron
      - EM energy is released when an electron drops into a lower orbital
      - RBN and pskreporter

<!--more-->
