---
title: 985 Workbench - 2024-05-06
subtitle:
date: 2024-05-06T22:54:43-04:00
tags: ['985', 'workbench', 'net', 'w3gms']
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio

- [Backyard antenna](/post/2024-05-03-backyard-alternate-antenna/)
  - build
    - cleaned up the backyard
    - threw wires high in the tree near the top of the hill
    - took my time
      - routing
      - tied and supported solidly,
      - no stress on connectors
    - first floor window to high on the hill
    - the hill is to the east
  - testing, discussion last week
    - made some contacts on 30m
    - switching
    - FT8 on 15m and pskreporter
    - counted decodes in wsjtx
    - new antenna had fewer decodes on average
    - compared the map - missing europe, since it followed the hill
      and not enough of the antenna is above the ridge
    - old antenna is mostly flat, but is 2nd floor and above
  - scheme to get more of the wire higher
- Reading the manual for fldigi
  - better prepared for contesting and logging
  - less fixing logs
- Observing some very boring HF propagation
  - if it weren't for the propagation reports, I'd think I broke something.
  - leaves also came in on my antenna tree

### Discussions
- Tim, W3QP, talked about sota.
- Ron, WA3VEE, is helping a new operator shop for equipment.
- Ron's going to the antique radio show to sell.
- Leon, AA3LH, is practicing CW.
- Jeff, W3JAM, why do we conventionally use LSB and USB?
- Bill, KC3OOK, does internet time sync work through hotspots?
- John, KC3WWC, What are better interfaces to SOTA?
  - map: https://sotl.as/
  - phone apps
    - sota spotter
    - sota activator (update the maps periodically)
  - uploads and data: https://sotadata.org.uk/
  - Tim's presentation:
     https://w3gmsrepeater.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/sota-an-overview.pdf

<!--more-->
