---
title: "985 Workbench: 2024-10-28"
subtitle:
date: 2024-10-28
tags: ['985', 'w3gms', 'workbench', 'net']
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio
- R1CBU 0.26.0 firmware for my X6100
  - I continue to maintain a fork
    of the code that modifies the database
    to show boundaries of US privileges and recommended usage.
### Questions
- W3MFB, Mike: increased tower height, switched to 60ft of new coax. 35W
  1.9:1 SWR, so worse than it was before. UHF is bad too.
  Checked it with NanoVNA. Seeing 1.3:1 SWR. Trying an analog SWR meter.
  Using Yaesu 991A. Showing 2:1 SWR. SWR goes up with different power.
  - NA3CW, Chuck: Test the tester. SWR shouldn't change with power.
    Could be something heating.
  - W3QP, Tim: He _does_ see different SWR at higher power due to reflections
    from his car. Shorter coax is better, but stay away from quarter wavelengths.
  - W3JAM, Jeff: Test the tester. Hearing him fine on the input, so it's good.
  - AF3Z, Jim: RF, common mode current, into the meter can cause erratic behavior.
  - NA3CW, Chuck: RF on outside of the feed line is sometimes hard to avoid,
    and can cause reading issues. Grabbing line at different places will
    cause readings to change.
  - W3QP, Tim: Some antennas recommend at least a turn of cable
    at the antenna to choke.
  - KC3OOK, Bill: 1.2 to 1.3 is a 0.9% loss.
  - W8CRW, CR: is that antenna tune-able.
  - W3MFB, Mike: may try ferrite beads at a height he can reach.
- W3MOW, Mike: Looking at Electric Vehicles. Who knows a reputable electrician
  to run power? Drop him the email you find on QRZ.
- KC3TMZ, Matt: Getting noise with random wire on G90. 71ft 9:1 wire.
  How does one run the counterpoise?
  - KC3MFB, Mike: 17 ft, opposite direction, if at all.
  - KC3RFG, Jim:
    - try different places.
    - choke at the radio, especially if you don't
    - run a counterpoise
  - W3QP, Tim:
    - There is always a counterpoise, so provide one so you can control it.
    - Number of turns or number of beads will be effective
      at different frequencies.
  - NA3CW, Chuck: There's an article on 985 website.
  - KC3NZT, Harvey:
    - The further from a balanced antenna, the more it'll force a counterpoise, 
      and that means your coax, so changes around your antenna (body)
      can change things as well.
    - Run the counterpoise opposite a sloper or flat topper,
    - you can get some gain in the direction of the counterpoise.
  - KC3TMZ, Matt: Propagation to light/dark places?
  - W3MFB, Mike: wire runs NE-SW, and it doesn't matter for direction too much.
  - KC3NZT, Harvey: Do you hear them? How do you know you're not getting to them?
    - Can hear them, but they don't hear him. Did manage Belarus once.
    - Do they have other stations calling them? Is it a pile-up?
    - He's getting beat for only 20W.
    - Don't get discouraged. It takes some technique.
  - W3MFB, Mike: Don't worry about 20W. Don't call QRP.
  - W3QP, Tim: Operates a lot of 10W. Propagation depends on radiation pattern.
    EFRW can have weird patterns with spiky lobes.
  - KC3TMZ, Matt: lots to learn, will take a recording from Ron.
- KC3WWC: Headed to Hawaii for a couple weeks and taking radios for all bands.
  What should I expect/try while traveling?
  - W3QP, Tim:
    - SOTA from volcanos!
    - salt water will give a great boost for DX.
    - lots of asia
- WA3VEE, Ron: the virtues of broadcastify

<!--more-->
