---
title: "985 Workbench: 2024-11-25"
subtitle:
date: 2024-11-25
tags: ['985', 'w3gms', 'workbench', 'net']
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio
- Took down my 2M antennas to straighten and resolder.
- Catching up the radio blog with my recent experiences.
- Trying F4HWN firmware on Quansheng radios
  - previous firmware, AUBSUK,
    for my Quansheng radio was skipping channels
    when I activated more than 1 scan list.
  - larger display with single VFO
  - rethinking my scan lists
  - the S-meter is calibrated differently from the other firmware
- no questions, because I should just be reading the antenna book
- FT Challenge coming up in 2 weekends.
*** Others
- KD3ACF, JT:
  - acquired a j-pole for the attic
  - new ham with an HT
  - magmount on the car, tested with WA3VEE from Manheim High School
- W8CRW, CR:
  - 985 activities
  - Red Rose activities
  - Salem CCARS acitvity
- W3QP, Tim:
  - trip to HRO
  - planning trips
- WA3VEE, Ron:
  - working on an old receiver
    - re-capping
    - Hammerland hq140x
    - terrible, loud 120hz buzz, so ordered capacitors to replace them
    - cleaned
    - fixed
    - needs just a little more work, alignment
  - got over to KC3YSM, Steve's place to help with his antenna
    - analyzed
    - Buckmaster OCF dipole
- KC3RFG, Jim:
  - watching 10m
  - Croatia, Belgium
  - repairing the 160m/75m dipole, new balun
- AF3Z, Jim:
  - testing his 1-tube QRP transmitter
  - practiced some CW with a friend on 10m
  - found sweden and belgium lower in the band.
- KC3OOK, Bill:
  - 985 net, simplex net
  - working on tower
  - helping Joe, W3GMS, assemble his new tower
- KC3SCY, Luke:
  - lots of time off from school this week
  - 10m has been wide-open
  - spent some time on 40m SSB and AM
- KC3VRW, Phil:
  - attempted to build a 10m inverted-V
  - MFJ tuner
  - trying tech HF frequencies
### Questions
- W3QP, Tim: Follow up on battery measurements for the TSA,
  Watt-hours instead of Amp-hours.
  - bigger batteries have bigger thermal events.
  - Wh is the amount of potential power.
  - Wh doesn't require doing the math to consider voltage in combo with Ah.
  - 18Ah at 12V.
  - The nominal voltage for the cells is less.
  - Expected usable volts are even less, so Wh is less than just V*A.
  - Nominal voltage can be different across different battery chemistries.
  - Nominal voltage may not be obvious.
  - 11.1 Nominal voltage might be 12.6V at peak charge.
  - Volts and Amps are important for application, but Watt-hours is better
    overall for capacity.
- AF3Z, Jim:
  - tinkering with Hartley oscillator:
    mica capacitors, ceramic capacitors,
    what's the difference of all the different capacitors?
    - WA3KFT, John:
      - ratings: capacitance, voltage.
      - The "dry electrolytic" is a paste, not oil.
      - main purpose is filtering AC converted to DC.
      - filtering some frequencies
      - ceramic capacitors are pretty stable, until overheated.
      - mica capacitors are small capacitances, pF. used for frequency
        stablizing.
      - variable air capacitor
      - oil filled are higher capacitance and used for low frequencies
        in power supplies, etc.
    - WA3VEE, Ron:
      - film capacitors
        - different dielectric
        - used for audio.
      - paper capacitor
      - dielectric is anything that separates the plates.
      - air capacitors
    - W3QP, Tim:
      - silver mica are maybe lower loss than ceramic
      - multi-layer capacitors for higher currents
    - W3DIB, Greg:
      - negatives of certain capacitors:
        - some dielectrics leak
        - tantalums can dead-short, like in a power supply.
      - saw a cool video of people building filters for cheap radios
        in places with heavy RF to keep them working better.
    - WA3VEE, Ron:
      - they leak when they get overheated.
      - leads to the plate have a little resistance so generate heat.
      - capacitor can have a vent that leaks under pressure.
    - NA3CW, Chuck:
      - capacitors are deceptively complex
      - all components have some bit of capacitance, inductance, resistance.
      - vacuum dialectric for especially high voltage.
      - lots of trade-off characteristics
      - some are piezoelectric (microphone), like a condenser microphone
- WA3VEE, Ron:
  - homework: does a capacitor allow current to flow through it?
KC3SQI, Wayne:
- solar telescope demos on December 11 at some park

<!--more-->
