---
title: "985 Workbench: 2025-09-22"
subtitle:
date: 2025-09-22
tags: ['985', 'workbench', 'net', 'w3gms']
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio
- replaced my RG-58 cable with KMR-400
  - $90 for 100ft, terminated
  - tested individual cables and combinations
  - nanoVNA "through measurement"
  - Wayne suggested
  - improved my 6.5dB loss to 3dB loss total
  - doubled power!
- Radtel RT-880G HT got a firmware upgrade
  - APRS beacons "just work" now.
  - still likes to show scrambled chinese for packets it doesn't read well
  - might next look into using it for a personal digipeating APRS.
- this weekend
  - 3D printing show in Belair MD
  - WW RTTY contest - lots of fun previous years

### Others
- {{<hamlink qrz="W1RC">}}, Mike:
  - learning a new radio and its menus with the manual
- {{<hamlink qrz="W8CRW">}}, CR:
  - 985 and local nets
  - flying drone to hang some ropes for another ham
- {{<hamlink qrz="WA3VEE">}}, Ron:
  - attended Antique Radio Show in Kutztown:
    vintage broadcast radio and audio
  - Joe emailed photos
  - get on Joe's email list
- {{<hamlink qrz="WA3KFT">}}, John:
  - running 6m and 2m nets
  - 700+ QSOs so far this year
- {{<hamlink qrz="AB3AP">}}, Mike:
  - attended breakfast
  - expecting to be at WFD doing 20-25wpm
- {{<hamlink qrz="NA3CW">}}, Chuck:
  - PMAM net sunday night, good conditions.
  - working on a transciever for James, a new member
    - replacing a memory battery
  - tower at Joe's is basically finished.
- {{<hamlink qrz="KB3ILS">}}, Keith:
  - picked up a nice small Elekraft radio
  - 5w, EF wire, 50 QSOs on CW
- {{<hamlink qrz="AF3Z">}}, Jim:
  - W3GMS website can send event reminders too,
    in addition to Joe's emails.
    - good reminder for hosts of nets
  - some CW
  - Saturday, tried working some other people besides his normal sked.
  - finally finished up photos for Longs Park festivals
- {{<hamlink qrz="KC3OOK">}}, Bill:
  - 985 nets, Simplex Net on Saturday, Welfare Net on Sunday
  - Joe's tower
  - vhf.dxview.com said VHF was open to Canada and east coast
- {{<hamlink qrz="KD3AIS">}}, Tim:
  - progress on radio in the truck
  - had the wrong mounting bracket
  - help from {{<hamlink qrz="KC3NZT">}}, Harvey
- {{<hamlink qrz="KD3APR">}}, Paxton:
  - operating in a house without power

### Questions
- {{<hamlink qrz="AB3AP">}}, Mike:
  - Winter Field Day sounds like it is 20-25WPM,
    and that'll be comfortable.
    Faster requires lots of extra listens.
    What are others' comfortable speeds?
  - {{<hamlink qrz="W3DIB">}}: 0
  - {{<hamlink qrz="AF3Z">}}:
    - keyers set to 35wpm, spacing is usually wider.
    - 20-25wpm is more comfortable
    - try to get contact info before the call
  - {{<hamlink qrz="W3DIB">}}, Greg: N2HM, Bob is amazing to watch
  - {{<hamlink qrz="KB3ILS">}}, Keith:
    - don't worry about speed on WFD. people will slow if you need.
    - just skip people who go too fast.
    - working closer to 20wpm will get you more contacts
    - managed first straight key contact at about 6wpm at last field day
    - "we'll help you copy, just try"
  - {{<hamlink qrz="WA3KFT">}}, John:
    - passed test with 13wpm for advanced
    - no longer that fast, out of practice
    - taught code in classes
    - first learned it in boy scouts
  - {{<hamlink qrz="NA3CW">}}, Chuck:
    - slower, took 2 attempts to pass 13wpm
    - 15-18 today
  - {{<hamlink qrz="KD3EE">}}, John:
    - morsle.fun: 25-30wpm if i can hear it multiple times
    - keyer at 20wpm, but leaving some space
    - I'll hope to get help copying at field day
  - {{<hamlink qrz="AF3Z">}}, Jim:
    - flags in boy scouts
    - passed 13wpm in 1967
    - barely passed 20wpm in 1979
    - practicing with a sked qso
    - 35wpm seems impossible, but he's getting there
    - being retired gives him time to practice
  - {{<hamlink qrz="W3DIB">}}, Greg:
    - https://lcwo.net/
  - {{<hamlink qrz="KB3ILS">}}, Keith:
    - use computer programs
    - also just listen to others' QSOs on 40m
  - {{<hamlink qrz="WA3VEE">}}, Ron:
    - use a websdr to listen
  - {{<hamlink qrz="KD3EE">}}, John:
    - ARRL code practice files and podcast
  - {{<hamlink qrz="KB3ZIM">}}, Bob:
    - hearing signals from south pacific right now on HF
    - practiced and learned at 59 years
    - always intended to use it
    - bought the CW paddle before a transceiver
    - doesn't want to inconvenience others
    - prosigns are baffling
    - practice sites don't necessarily demonstrate prosigns
    - seeing dots and dashes slowed us all down
  - {{<hamlink qrz="KD3EE">}}, John:
    - chase POTA to practice CW
  - {{<hamlink qrz="KB3ILS">}}, Keith:
    - relayed my message, and recommended spotting from pota.app.
  - {{<hamlink qrz="AF3Z">}}, Jim:
    - SKCC hangs out on +50khz and events, so good to listen there
    - simple exchanges
    - don't do CW if you don't like it.
- {{<hamlink qrz="KD3APR">}}, Paxton:
  - Seeing some repeaters offering "auto-patch". How's that work,
    and how's it sound?
  - {{<hamlink qrz="W3DIB">}}, Greg:
    - Univ Del had an autopatch.
    - you'd need to get permission and get the code to be able to use it.
    - it would place the phone call.
    - it would leave the TX up the whole time the phone was on.
  - {{<hamlink qrz="WA3VEE">}}, Ron:
    - it's been years.
    - other person would need to know to say "over" since the carrier
      stayed up even when remote is transmitting,
      and on one would otherwise know when the other person stops
    - got to use it once in the 70s to call for road help
  - {{<hamlink qrz="AF3Z">}}, Jim:
    - needed to remind the phone side
      that the communication is being transmitted
    - don't do business.
  - {{<hamlink qrz="NA3CW">}}, Chuck:
    - you just can't use the radio for your boss, "under ordrers".
    - running a business vs doing a transaction.
- {{<hamlink qrz="KB3ZIM">}}, Bob:
  - Is autopatch still used and offered?
  - {{<hamlink qrz="WA3VEE">}}, Ron:
    - repeater book lists autopatch as a service on some repeaters
  - {{<hamlink qrz="W3DIB">}}, Greg:
    - it's probably easy in the time of VOIP.

<!--more-->
