---
title: "985 Workbench: 2025-02-10"
subtitle:
date: 2025-02-10
tags: ['985', 'workbench', 'w3gms', 'net']
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio
- Reconfigured `fldigi``
  with some more modular macros
  and used them for a short time
  for CQ WPX RTTY contest
- Replaced my 71-foot EFRW with 107-foot wire
  - ATU works a bit harder than the previous,
    but stretching the counterpoise in a different direction helped.
- 5W into the wire got me a contact to Japan on FT8

### Others
- KC3SCY, Luke:
  - building out his radio desk
  - new Drake TR-4A and matching transmitter
- W8CRW, CR:
  - Nets
- WA3VEE, Ron:
  - checking out and testing equipment
  - interviewed on podcast: "operation freedom. ham radio in public service."
  - KB3SVC presented on _senior scams_ at another meeting
- W3QP, Tim:
  - 11 summits in Virginia!
- KC3TYX, Vic:
  - VHF nets, No HF.
  - hiking and geocaching.
- NA3CW, Chuck:
  - 985 activities
  - tower work at Joe's when weather permits.
  - acquired merantz professional CD recorder
  - PM/AM net pre-net host. much better at 3:30pm for pre-net.
- KC3OOK, Bill:
  - 985 nets
  - South control for Simplex Net
    - 37 check-ins with only 2 controls
  - Passed along some gear to others via Joe
- KD3AIS, Tim:
  - drove to Parkesburg, and remembered to bring mobile glass-mount antenna
    and HT, so could contact to the repeater via RF.
- AF3Z, Jim:
  - working on Omni 6, which is broken
    - getting worse as he diagnoses
  - visited old shack in basement and rearranged it
    - finally returned to MB102 heathkit rig with power supply
    - replaced some capacitors
    - now working!
- KC3SQI, Wayne:
  - email reminder was appreciated to host the workbench
- WA3KFT, John:
  - playing with some heathkit lunch boxes.
    - 2m, 6m, 11m
    - doesn't have the 10m
    - they're regenerative receivers
    - not very efficient transmitters
  - vibrator power supply for radios that run off 120V AC
  - was convenient back in the day to be able to hang equipment
    from the old dashboard in cars.
### Questions
- KD3AIS, Tim:
  - Given his recent foray
    into mobile radio and a glass-mounted antenna,
    he's looking at mobile rigs.
    He's seeming some that are higher-power single band,
    and some lower-power dual band.
    Also seeing single-band and dual-band antennas.
    But no 70cm single-band antennas.
    Recommendations and considerations?
    - WA3VEE, Ron:
      - Ron just runs high-power dual-band.
      - there are lots of 70cm repeaters around the area.
      - magmount antennas on top.
      - don't worry about 65W vs 50W. close enough.
    - W3CRW, CR:
      - found a 70cm-only antenna on amazon.
      - still recommend dual band
    - WA3KFT, John:
      - dual band antenna is nicer for 70cm.
      - he dedicates a 70cm antenna and a 2m
    - KC3NZT, Harvey:
      - don't worry much about power on dual-band radios
      - watch for nicer features
        - full-duplex
        - digital control
        - dual-watch
    - K3YVQ, Jack:
      - has Larson NMO 270 antenna to give away
    - KC3OOK, Bill:
      - recommended a couple radios with those features
    - NA3CW, Chuck:
      - dual-band rigs run less power because they're a compromise.
      - single-band rig is no compromise, but more limited in features.
      - there are 470MHz antennas for commercial bands
      - feature: wishes his rig had split tones.
    - W8CRW, CR:
      - crossband repeat
      - split tones
    - WA3VEE, Ron:
      - Yaesus generally don't support split tone
      - ICOMs generally do
    - W3GMS, Joe:
      - ICOM IC-2730A is great
        - split tone
        - good cooling
        - power makes a huge difference when you're trying
          to open squelch on a repeater
        - nmo mount is nice, because you can swap specialized antennas.
    - KC3SQI, Wayne:
      - run IC-4730 for split tone and crossband
- KC3WWC, John:
  - Adding another dual-band antenna outside, probably dedicated to APRS.
    How close can they be or how should they be arranged?
  - WA3KFT, John:
    - 5 vertical antennas: 10, 6, 2m, 220, 440.
      - 2m and 440 are harmonically related, so separated
      - all mounted on a bar.
      - 440 and 2m are separated 7.5 ft, so they don't interact.
      - 35 ft off the ground.
      - can't separate them that much on a car.
  - KC3SQI, Wayne:
    - if the antennas are harmonically related,
      attempt to separate at least 2 wavelengths
    - dual band antennas are
    - DX Engineering has an antenna bar already setup with multiples
  - WA3VEE, Ron
    - Diamond dualband is good. mounted on front.
    - 220 in the middle
    - something else on the far back of the vehicle.

<!--more-->
