---
title: "985 Workbench: 2025-10-13"
subtitle:
date: 2025-10-13
tags: ['985', 'workbench', 'net', 'w3gms']
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio
- practiced copying CW
  with Morse Maven app
  while on vacation
  with no radios.
  - Koch method to build up symbols, and now words.
  - I need to break the habit of repeating in my head,
    especially for similar letters, like F and L.
- listened to PA QSO party, but didn't participate
- fixed antennas around home were not performing well
  - confused by a local repeater also experiencing power problem
  - bad connection to YAGI
  - 1 entire antenna broken and fallen out of the tree
  - untangled and reassembled everything

### Others
- {{<hamlink qrz="W8CRW">}}, CR:
  - 985 activities, Red Rose, Salem in NJ
- {{<hamlink qrz="WA3VEE">}}, Ron:
  - breakfast with Pottstown group
  - visited Pottstown repeater site to take photos
  - Pottstown UHF net
  - graphed coverage with "what's my path" profiler
  - PA QSO parties: 63/67 counties + states, 10k points
    - good test for emergency comms
  - worked other special events
  - RF Hill Hamfest next weekend
  - CQ DX SSB coming up
- {{<hamlink qrz="W3QP">}}, Tim:
  - picked up LDG tuner at a hamfest
    - started testing it out recently
    - cleaned it up with deoxit to make it work
  - SOTA in vermont: 8 summits
  - summit-to-summit QSO party
  - cleaning up computer stuff around the shack
    - stuff to get rid of: wireless router, ethernet router, PoE, computer
- {{<hamlink qrz="AF3Z">}}, Jim:
  - avoided the PA QSO party
  - a little CW for random contacts on 10M
- {{<hamlink qrz="KC3OOK">}}, Bill:
  - south control for simplex net: worked 7 counties
  - finished riser for his station
  - finishing touches on tower base at Joe's.
- {{<hamlink qrz="KA3GLI">}}, Dave:
  - installed a ground-rod
  - ordered a throw line to launch some wires
  - planning location for his station in the basement
    - power
- {{<hamlink qrz="W3KZG">}}, Scott:
  - assisted with Joe's tower swap
  - helped with last-minute things on tower base
  - picked up a nano VNA on amazon prime day.
- {{<hamlink qrz="NA3CW">}}, Chuck:
  - 985 activities
  - net control for 75M PM/AM net
  - hosted new hams, James and Mike, to setup a test rig for logging
    in Kenya. USB to DB9 serial.
  - CQ DX WW SSB will be a great opportunity for DX
- {{<hamlink qrz="KD3AIS">}}, Tim:
  - learned some colleagues are hams
- {{<hamlink qrz="AA3LH">}}, Leon:
  - problem: key up HF radio, and it would turn off.
    - troubleshoot for 2 days
    - 3 radios would work with the PS fine.
    - found a bad connector
- {{<hamlink qrz="KC3SQI">}}, Wayne:
  - 80m OCF thrown into a tree.
  - used the existing rope to pull a pulley into the tree,
    so it's easier to get the wire up and down.

### Questions
- {{<hamlink qrz="KA3GLI">}}, Dave:
  - Didn't care for "Coax Shield" to seal connectors.
    Is there something better?
  - {{<hamlink qrz="KB3ZIM">}}, Bob:
    - There's a silicone tape, coax seal, that sticks to itself,
      and stays in place really well: 9 years.
    - Maybe you had a bad batch of that "Coax Shield" stuff.
    - try a different brand.
    - make sure the coax is clean.
  - {{<hamlink qrz="W3KZG">}}, Scott:
    - Coax wrap can be an absolute mess to remove.
    - Has found some recently that doesn't stick.
    - likes adhesive-lined heat shrink for coax
      and other electrical applications.
  - {{<hamlink qrz="NA3CW">}}, Chuck:
    - coax seal was fine in the past
    - squish it in like clay
    - try self-fusing tape: silicone, sticks to itself.
  - {{<hamlink qrz="KC3OOK">}}, Bill:
    - coax wrap silicon tape
    - doesn't stick to itself. friction, then electrical tape.
    - cut it off
  - {{<hamlink qrz="KC3RFG">}}, Jim:
    - does a wrap of scotch electrical tape,
      then the silicone coax wrap,
      so it's easy to remove
  - {{<hamlink qrz="AA3LH">}}, Leon:
    - has used a non-conductive grease from HRO on connectors
  - {{<hamlink qrz="KC3SQI">}}, Wayne:
    - stretch and seal silicone tape from home depot.
      - not radio specific.
    - also grease. used on boat as well.
  - {{<hamlink qrz="KA3GLI">}}, Dave:
    - forgot about adhesive-lined heat shrink
    - lots of good ideas
- {{<hamlink qrz="KD3AIS">}}, Tim:
  - Are there big factors unexplored in causes of intermod
    that effects a handful of nets?
  - {{<hamlink qrz="NA3CW">}}, Chuck:
    - interaction between 2 radio signals acting upon some non-linear
      element.
      - transistors in the amplifier
      - rusty bolt joint
      - crossed wires
      - power line
      - something that creates a mixing element,
        and causes a 3rd signal
      - adjacent towers
    - we have control of 1 signal, but not the other
    - could be the nearby cell tower
    - nothing has worked yet
      - lots of solid technical efforts
    - trying to solve it with coexistance
      - digital
      - auxiliary site at Joe's house
        - different PL tone
  - {{<hamlink qrz="W3KZG">}}, Dave:
    - do other sites have intermod problems?
  - {{<hamlink qrz="KC3SQI">}}, Wayne:
    - it is common
    - troubleshooting the second signal is often the problem
    - can also be a problem with field equipment
  - {{<hamlink qrz="NA3CW">}}, Chuck:
    - slipping connectors can cause it
    - commercial sites require a certain connector to avoid it
  - {{<hamlink qrz="KC3SQI">}}, Wayne:
    - it can be a problem in non-RF equipment: medical, etc

<!--more-->
