---
title: "985 Workbench: 2025-10-27"
subtitle:
date: 2025-10-27T21:01:42-04:00
tags: [985, workbench, w3gms, net]
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio
- great ham fest in Harrisburg
  - ARISS presentation was great with a good pass
    to hear astronauts answering questions at a museum in Indiana
  - bought a cheap power meter for HF and some connectors
- 5 hours of CQ WW DX SSB contest
  - 12 contacts
    - Canary Islands on 5W SSB.
    - heard lots more that could hear my 5W
  - logged in [World Radio League](https://worldradioleague.com/)
    website and phone app.
    It exported a perfect Cabrillo file for the contest.
  - [POLO](https://polo.ham2k.com/)
    was not going to cut it for contest exchanges.
    (I later found global "Activities" settings
    that exposed a "simple contest" mode.)
- blog up-to-date after months being outdated
### Others
- {{<hamlink qrz="NA3CW">}}, Chuck:
  - PM/AM net on 75 meters
- {{<hamlink qrz="AF3Z">}}, Jim:
  - trying echolink, noticed repeater keys instantaneously,
    but audio is significantly delayed
    allstar seems less delayed
  - 10M CW Sked: around 28.180MHz
  - found a DX pile-up a little lower in the band:
    - C5Y from Gambia
    - used RIT
    - managed to work the station
    - 70W
- {{<hamlink qrz="KC3OOK">}}, Bill:
  - net control for simplex net
  - building his station on the bench
  - ron dropped off an HP signal generator
- {{<hamlink qrz="KD3AIS">}}, Tim:
  - made his 1st 10 contacts on 10M
  - getting comfortable
- {{<hamlink qrz="KC3NZT">}}, Harvey:
  - also got on 10M while it's open for the contest.
    - 50 countries in 10 minutes
    - also New Mexico on 10M for WAS
- {{<hamlink qrz="WA3KFT">}}, John:
  - fighting with a Bird Watt Meter 4410.
    - powered by 9V battery
    - has an amplifier that's required
    - not working
    - may need repair
- {{<hamlink qrz="KC3MAI">}}, Joe:
  - upgraded to AE
  - signed the private land use bill
  - 4 contacts in contest, including C5Y
  - [Father Murgas Reenactment](https://www.murgasarc.org/FATHER%20MURGAS%20DAY.pdf)
    - this is an important event
    - Hungarian priest came to wilkes barre
    - into wireless telegraphy
    - first person to do point-to-point over 20mi (Wilkes Barre to Scranton)
    - used a 2-tone system of his own invention instead of CW
    - Joe's driving and buying lunch. email him.
- {{<hamlink qrz="AC3NW">}}, Manny:
  - identified a good location for his Hustler 5bpv vertical with radials
    - cleared with XYL
### Questions
- {{<hamlink qrz="NA3CW">}}, Chuck:
  - Helping a preschool with a computer update.
    Front of the laptop pushed apart and won't push back together.
    Battery is 2x original thickness.
    Stowed in in the driveway.
    What do you do with a damaged lithium ion battery?
  - {{<hamlink qrz="KD3EE">}}, John:
    - drop it at Waste Management in Lancaster: House Hold Chemicals
  - {{<hamlink qrz="KC3NZT">}}, Harvey:
    - Home Depot took it as long as not actively warm
      - put it in a non-conductive bag
    - His local scrapper would take them too
  - {{<hamlink qrz="W8CRW">}}, CR:
    - Chester County Recycling said just throw it in the trash(!)
  - {{<hamlink qrz="W1RC">}}, Mike:
    - in Massachusetts, he'd take it to the Fire Dept.
  - {{<hamlink qrz="W3KZG">}}, Scott:
    - For {{<hamlink qrz="NA3CW">}}, Chuck: SECRA doesn't accept that stuff,
      but they do pick up a couple times a year.
      SECRA recommends the retail store.
  - {{<hamlink qrz="NA3CW">}}, Chuck:
    - local trash collector forbid lithium or lead acid batteries
    - likes the idea of Home Depot
      - may only want tool batteries, though, hand-written sign.
    - not generating any heat
- {{<hamlink qrz="KD3EE">}}, John: Seeing a 20kHz-wide band of noise in the 30M band.
  In SSB it sounds like a flatulent tractor anywhere you tune in it.
  reminds me of maybe over-the-horizon radar.
  What might this be, and what other mysteries in signals
  have you seen and solved?
  - {{<hamlink qrz="KC3NZT">}}, Harvey:
    - 60M is shared with military, but 30M may also have military.
    - radar usually looks like a narrow sweep
  - {{<hamlink qrz="NA3CW">}}, Chuck:
    - not a broadcasting band, but
    - DRM signal on 70M: shortwave with very defined edges
  - Aberdeen Proving Ground tests lots of HF radio equipment
- {{<hamlink qrz="AA3LH">}}, Leon:
  - Does anyone have any model trains they'd like to donate
    for a church display at Christmas?
    Call 717-286-7216 to donate.
    - {{<hamlink qrz="KD3AIS">}}, Tim:
      - He has too much stuff in the attic, including trains from childhood.
      - Will donate.
  - {{<hamlink qrz="AA3LH">}}, Leon:
    - call the number, thanks.
  - {{<hamlink qrz="W3KZG">}}, Scott:
    - {{<hamlink qrz="KB3ZIM">}}, Bob, may have some trains to re-home.

<!--more-->
