---
title: "985 Workbench: 2025-11-17"
subtitle:
date: 2025-11-17
tags: ['w3gms', 'workbench', 'net', '985', 'doublet']
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio
- Allstar node being weird
- saw a great youtube video on APRS bots:
  - MPAD being very versatile for:
    weather, callsign lookup, location report to email
  - ISS bot that tells you the next pass
- listened to a couple sweepstakes contacts:
  to lazy to try to communicate that much exchange QRP SSB
- built a doublet on a portable operation today:
  - split 6.25M of speaker wire
    to be a 12.5M-long, center-fed, non-resonant dipole,
    like my portable EFRW I usually carry.
  - the rest is balanced feed line
  - right to the radio
  - tuned 20M and barely tuned 40M on my X6100
  - 2W FT8 heard in Africa and Europe
  - next try it with a 4:1 or 9:1 balun to match better
### Others
- {{<qrz W1RC>}}, Mike:
  - Elekraft K3S from an estate sale.
    - advanced radio
    - had a K3 that he never used.
    - computer with an RF section
    - will sell the K3
- {{<qrz KN3I>}}, John:
  - Went to the 
   [Father Murgas Event](https://www.murgasarc.org/FATHER%20MURGAS%20DAY.pdf)
   in Scranton
  - signed up for N3FJP and LotW access
  - sweepstakes
  - fixing another ICOM radio
  - 80 meters
- {{<qrz W8CRW>}}, CR:
  - clearnode is working again
- {{<qrz KC3RFG>}}, Jim:
  - Got some Aurora photos
- {{<qrz K3FF>}}, Rene:
  - windy a couple weeks ago,
    found his amp cutting out for high SWR
    - antenna was arcing to another antenna at high power
- {{<qrz WA3KFT>}}, John:
  - operating 10M net, got TX, NC, NJ, MA without trying
  - 28435kHz - retired net, 1pm EST
- {{<qrz KD3BPI>}}, Simon:
  - testing airplane radios for work
- {{<qrz NA3CW>}}, Chuck:
  - chatting mobile
  - PM/AM net: abysmal geomagnetic conditions
  - computer work: database and labels for a church food distribution effort
- {{<qrz KC3OOK>}}, Bill:
  - relayed for low-power net controllers in simplex net
- {{<qrz KC3SQI>}}, Wayne:
  - putting new antennas on the new mast
  - shopping other antennas
- {{<qrz KC3MAI>}}, Joe:
  - Went to Scranton for 120 Anniversary of Father Murgas event:
    first overland telegraphy
  - started studying CW
- {{<qrz AA3LH>}}, Leon:
  - Introduced an ATU to replace a manual tuner
  - connected an antenna directly to the radio
    - found lower SWR than with the switch, maybe needs replaced
- {{<qrz KB3ZIM>}}, Bob:
  - check out the murgas amateur radio club website for that story
  - will be busier in radio as it gets colder outside
  - wants to get a 160M wire in the air
- {{<qrz AF3Z>}}, Jim:
  - went to Scranton for the Father Murgas event.
  - met the guy who started HamSCI at U of Scranton:
    very nice shack for school.
### Questions
- {{<qrz WA3VEE>}}, Ron:
  - what are the types of solar panel installation,
    and which causes the least RFI for HF?
    - each panel could have micro inverter
    - or they could all run to 1 big inverter
    - read a central inverter may be easier to control RFI.
  - {{<qrz KC3RFG>}}, Jim:
    - neighbor has panels across the street
    - 3 years old
    - no choice: all micro-invertors
  - {{<qrz W8CRW>}}, CR:
    - find an installer who will do 1 large inverter
- {{<qrz KD3BPI>}}, Simon:
  - What are the pointers and highlights of studying for General?
  - Using another test website to study, something besides hamstudy.
  - {{<qrz AF3Z>}}, Jim:
    - hasn't tested since 1979
  - {{<qrz WA3VEE>}}, Ron:
    - test sites are "ham cramming"
    - look for "Gordon West study guide"
    - you already know most of it
    - FCC wants to make sure you know it at least once
  - {{<qrz WA3KFT>}}, John:
    - has extra class study guide by gordon west.
    - study guide explains why the correct answer is correct.
  - {{<qrz KC3RFG>}}, Jim:
    - used ham study to pass the test and get started
    - focused on what you need to know for the test
    - learn more later
  - {{<qrz KC3SQI>}}, Wayne:
    - learn the theory
    - to study and get on quicker, aarl has the question pool.
    - go back and get the Gordon West book for reference and learning later
  - {{<qrz KD3BPI>}}, Simon:
    - will find that Gordon West book
- {{<qrz KC3SQI>}}, Wayne:
  - Looking to step up from windom dipole (used for 4 years).
    on 10M, it has lots of lobes, so hard to predict results.
    Looking at a hex beam to put on a rotor on the mast.
    Considering wind loads for antenna, mast, and rotor.
    Different ways to mount the rotor:
    unistrut and thrust bearing.
    Any experience in strengthening a rotor installation?
  - {{<qrz WA3KFT>}}, John:
    - thrust bearing takes all the vertical weight, so none on the rotor.
    - without a brake, it moves easy enough for winds to turn the mast.

<!--more-->
