---
title: "985 Workbench: 2025-06-09"
subtitle:
date: 2025-06-09
tags: ['985', 'workbench', 'w3gms', 'net']
draft: false
---
### My Weeks in Radio
- got the Bluetooth TNC connection working even better between UV-PRO
  - clear the channel
  - now it automatically reconnects
- testing a new-to-me small-ish magnetic loop: alpha antenna
  - small and quick to deploy
  - park activation before this net
- repaired and re-tuned yagi
  - added a the hairpin patch to lower SWR
  - extra S-unit hearing 985
- last week, allstar node wouldn't connect to 985 over phone network
  - connected to a parrot test node just fine
  - strange interference when the car shutoff that blocked any signal

### Others
- W1RC, Mike:
  - got Allstar going with 985
- W8CRW, CR:
  - working on DTMF on Allstar
  - connecting phone to ethernet
- WA3VEE, Ron:
  - field day press release
- KC3RFG, Jim:
  - working through some RFI with a mic on HF
- W3MFB: Mike:
  - bands not great
- K3FHA, John:
  - organizing antenna switching on the desk
  - checking out some test equipment
- KC3TYX, Vic:
  - replaced fan in a power supply to be quiet
  - playing with 6m bazooka antenna for FT8
    - Connecticut, Nebraska, Minnesota, Florida,
      then it closed
- KC3OOK, Bill:
  - watching DXtracker, dxview and saw 6m openings
  - lots accomplished on Joe's tower.
  - sketching next project
- KC3SCY, Luke:
  - acquired an AM radio kit to build
    - 7 transitor, superheterodyne, etc
    - soldering
  - PM/AM Net
  - listening to some CW
- WA3KFT, John:
  - mounted and using a Comet G9 right now
- N3CRE, Charlie:
- KC3SQI, Wayne:
  - having trouble using the wrong frequency
  - concrete base for a new tilt-over tower

### Questions
- W3MFB, Mike:
  - On Simplex Net, he only hears a handful of people,
    so hard to tell when to jump in.
    Do others hear a bunch of people?
    What zone should he be?
    - WA3VEE, Ron:
      - Ron is way East, and doesn't have a beam aiming West.
      - Rarely hears anyone but KC3OOK and W8CRW
    - KC3TYX, Vic:
      - wouldn't hear anything for a while,
        but waited patiently for his section to get active.
      - notes changes in propagation and new people
    - KC3WWC, John:
      - good to note who you can contact simplex if you needed
    - KC3OOK, Bill:
      - what section? check-in with whomever you hear.
      - it's expanded quite a bit beyond lancaster county
        - the name is actually now "central pa simplex net"
      - propagation varies quite a bit from week to week
      - nearby stations can hear very different sets of stations
      - Bill hears many of the stations now with current antenna
      - Good way to gauge antenna performance
      - just throw your callsign. maybe a relay can get it.
    - W8CRW, CR:
      - he can check-in with central or east,
        but propagation is very different.
- KC3OOK, Bill:
  - What's a good depth for shelves and cabinets holding radios?
  - WA3KFT, John:
    - existing racks: 17-inches and 18-inches
    - try not to have too much protruding out the back
      of the chassis/rack: cables
  - W3GMS, Joe:
    - racks have no standard depth
  - WA3VEE, Ron:
    - ideally, you can get to the back of the equipment very easily
    - he finds 24-inches quite adequate
    - dual channel closetmaid is good for shelves/cabinets
    - give yourself as much depth as you can
  - KC3OOK, Bill:
    - looking at 18-20 inches
- KC3WWC, John:
  - Do others have trouble with allstar to 985
    when tethered to a phone hotspot?
  - Differences controversy over HAMVOIP (closed source?) 
    vs allstarlink v3 (open-source)?
  - W3GMS, Joe:
    - no complaints from anyone else
    - permission list is by node number, not network
  - KC3WWC, John:
    - I'll need to continue to work on it myself.
- N3QNC, Joe:
  - What are people's experience on 6M? What power?
  - W3MFB, Mike:
    - SSB, 70W
    - likes to run less power
    - FM repeater in honeybrook
  - WA3KFT, John:
    - runs 80-90W with a beam
    - SSB
    - used to use a 5W AM rig
    - antenna matters the most: height
  - N3QNC, Joe:
    - trying to do 6M for POTA, usually 5W
  - WA3VEE, Ron:
    - a number of nets on 6M.
      google or ARRL has a list: "south eastern pennsylvania"
- W3MFB, Mike:
  - Did anyone listen to shuttle missions? 120MHz, etc?
  - KC3WWC, John:
    - I'm pretty sure I used to listen to something in early 90s
      on scanner. Sounded like discussion of experiments, etc.
  - W3GMS, Joe:
    - Fort Mead, Maryland would rebroadcast on 75M.
    - Joe has a processor on display that was designed
      to process all audio
      from mission control.
    - He may have the only one that wasn't used.

<!--more-->
