---
title: "985 Workbench: 2025-11-24"
subtitle:
date: 2025-11-24
tags: ['985', 'workbench', 'w3gms', 'net']
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio
- activated {{<pota US-1380>}}, Marsh Creek, 
  after breakfast on Friday:
  - testing my speaker wire doublet with 4:1 balun and 9:1 balun
  - 15 contacts on 10M FT8
  - 11 P2P CW contacts on 20M
- setup my Allstar node to keep recordings
### Others
- {{<qrz W1RC>}}, Mike:
  - new K3S radio
  - lots of nice features
- {{<qrz W8CRW>}}, CR:
  - helped Bill with replacing his 2M antenna
  - simplex net this weekend is looking for homebrew antennas
- {{<qrz AA3LH>}}, Leon:
  - researching and playing with some of his antennas
- {{<qrz AB3AP>}}, Mike:
  - accompanied wife to Hawaii
  - loosened dipole to avoid any wind while gone
- {{<qrz WA3KFT>}}, John:
  - lots of openings on 10M
  - all 14 antennas have stayed in the air through the wind
- {{<qrz K3FF>}}, Rene:
  - working on his Clipperton power supply
  - fixing harback board
  - FT-101B. bought for parts, but fixed it up anyway.
  - learning more about the 3D printer.
- {{<qrz W3MFB>}}, Mike:
  - playing with AnyTone 5555 from CR.
    - 10M radio
    - sounds great on AM
  - caught london and texas on 10M
- {{<qrz KC3SQI>}}, Wayne:
  - getting his 7300 up and running with new antennas
- {{<qrz K3DBD>}}, Bob:
  - working on a power supply from a repeater site
  - good article in latest QST on POTA
- {{<qrz NA3CW>}}, Chuck:
  - helped Bill with a new antenna
- {{<qrz W3KZG>}}, Scott:
  - helped with Bill's antenna
- {{<qrz KC3MAI>}}, Joe:
  - spent some time listening to CW to learn
  - looking into allstar node with {{<qrz KN3I>}}, John.
- {{<qrz KD3AIS>}}, Tim:
  - got his mobile radio mounted in the car
- {{<qrz KC3OOK>}}, Bill:
  - antenna party
  - new antenna is getting out better during simplex net
- {{<qrz VE2AED>}}, Howard:
  - 50mi NW of Montreal
  - active on HF: lots of experimenting
- {{<qrz KC3HQZ>}}, Jean:
  - working on HF antennas to be heard better
  - some radios in the shop: frustration
### Questions
- {{<qrz AA3LH>}}, Leon:
  - He has a G5RV antenna for traveling with 450ohm ladder line.
    It connects right to coax. Why doesn't it need a 4:1 balun?
    Another similar antenna has the balun.
  - {{<qrz WA3KFT>}}, John:
    - the ladder line is part of the antenna, so it's the normal feed point.
  - {{<qrz NA3CW>}}, Chuck:
    - G5RV suggested running balanced line the whole way back to the station.
  - {{<qrz AA3LH>}}, Leon:
    - Feeds the G5RV with 50ft of LMR-400 and it works pretty well.
- {{<qrz K3FF>}}, Rene:
  - Wondering about capacitors in harbach rebuild kits
    having different capacitances
    for the Clipperton L power supply.
    Is there concern for in-rush current?
  - {{<qrz WA3KFT>}}, John:
    - has a Clipperton L, hasn't messed with it.
    - higher capacitance is a benefit
  - {{<qrz WA3VEE>}}, Ron:
    - Sees nothing that limits in-rush current on existing board.
    - sent photos of his restoration process
  - {{<qrz NA3CW>}}, Chuck:
    - designer of the B model says no need to worry about in-rush.
    - wire gauge should be sufficient.
  - {{<qrz W3GMS>}}, Joe:
    - schematic shows no in-rush management, so add it.
    - has some good experience using thermistors for managing in-rush.
    - 2.5-3ohm is sufficient.
- {{<qrz KC3SQI>}}, Wayne:
  - Is anyone familiar with the Hex Beam and the center mount balun?
    Is it open at the top for mounting another antenna above it?
  - {{<qrz KC3NZT>}}, Harvey:
    - most hex beams he's seen have been designed to be the top of the mast
      with a little stub to support the spreaders.
    - people who mounted another antenna above it did it with as stand-off
      from the tower below extending up through the webbing
  - {{<qrz KC3SQI>}}, Wayne:
    - has the question out to some manufacturers. waiting.
- {{<qrz KD3AIS>}}, Tim:
  - Looking for short antennas for the car that fit in the garage.
    Fender-mounted on truck.
    Specs being mostly equal, how does he choose?
  - {{<qrz W3MFB>}}, Mike:
    - short antennas will be quarter wave.
    - longer will be better: half wave.
    - DX Engineering has a "compact antenna" that's pretty  good.
  - {{<qrz KC3NZT>}}, Harvey:
    - Anything close to 17 inches are quarter wave,
      and 30-some inches is half wave.
    - half wave can look pretty normal on a truck.
    - half wave can be less ground-dependent.
    - try to get as much wire in the air as you can.
  - {{<qrz KC3SQI>}}, Wayne:
    - longer half wave antenna may avoid RFI from car.

<!--more-->
