---
title: "985 Workbench: 2025-03-24"
subtitle:
date: 2025-03-24
tags: ['985', 'w3gms', 'workbench', 'net']
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio
- 985 breakfast
  - chatted lots of Vic and Jerry
- pota
  - 2 parks: middle creek and state game land down the road
  - set up multiple antennas: efhw + tactical delta loop
  - telescoping antenna for CB walkie talkie
- observed some degraded propagation the next day or 2 over the weekend
- need to check and tune up my slim jim again
### Questions
- KC3TYX, Vic:
  Tried to tune into WA3KFT's 6M net, but could only hear 1 person.
  What kind of antenna should he have used for local contacts like that?
  - W3MFB, Mike:
    - PVC pipe with caps and made a rigid half-wave dipole and put it
      on a lightweight rotor to change direction of the horizontal broadside.
    - try an omni-angle antenna (circular)
    - you may also hear better in the summer.
  - WA3KFT, John:
    - used 2 perpendicular wire dipoles thumbtacked to the ceiling in an apartment.
      - single feed point
      - omni-directional
      - feed directly with coax
      - VHF frequencies have smaller antennas
      - thicker elements give wider bandwidth (copper pipe)
  - KC3SQI, Wayne:
    - built one that looked like a hula hoop: folder 6m dipole in a loop
      - omnidirectional + wide bandwidth
      - he can lend it
  - WA3VEE, Ron:
    - double bazooka design
- WA3VEE, Ron:
  - What's the minimum to deploy in the field for HF, VHF, UHF?
  - KC3TYX, Vic:
    - radio, hamstick, battery
  - W8CRW, CR:
    - just his truck: it has everything for UHF, VHF, HF.
  - KC3YSM, Steve:
    - looking at plans for simple wire antennas.
      - KB9VBR pota performer on a camera tripod with elevated radials
      - going to try to build that one
  - WA3KFT:
    - handful of hamsticks
  - W3MFB, Mike:
    - for emergency in car: UHF/VHF radio, CB, G90, some hamsticks
    - tune anything with a G90

<!--more-->
