---
title: "SPARC 900MHz"
subtitle:
date: 2025-02-25
tags: ['900mhz', 'meeting', 'sparc']
draft: false
---

W3IHM, Sam, presented the 900MHz band
at the SPARC member meeting.

### History
- 1926 - first regulation of amateur radio
  - before 1926, ban on anything belowe 200m
    - amateurs could do anything they want above 1.5MHz
- First regulations defined bands
  - harmonically related
- Amateurs imposed legislation for technical reasons
- 900MHz has been available to hams since 1926
- People wanted broadcast interference from ham radio gone in mid 1920s
- 1930s - allow anything above 110MHz
- 1935 - people were getting up to 3200MHz with magnetrons (spinning electron)
- Commercial broadcastsers pushed hams into bands and out of lower bands
  in 1920s when we started figuring out propagation in the ionosphere,
  and they wanted to broadcast around the world.
- war-1940 - we're allowed above 300MHz
- 1941 - all ham radio is shutdown for war
- 1947 - military is reluctant to give back bands
  - bands shifted around a little
  - allowed up to 300GHz
- 1952 - added 15M
- 1979 - added WARC bands (12, 17, 30)
- 1986 - 33cm
- 2002 - 60M
- 2016 - 2200M, 630M
- Will we get 8M, 5M, and 4M like other parts of the world?

### Characteristics
- 900MHz-928MHz
- Feed line loss is double that of 440MHz
- Antenna loss
- Atmospheric loss
- Simplex is pretty dismal
- Bounces well, like off airplanes
  - Once got Harrisburg to Philly bouncing off an airplane
  - Hit repeaters with Yagis and bounces
- It's a shared band with some other services.

### Possibilities
- Commercial radios with other software and surgery
- Harris radio - expensive software
- EF Johnson - free software, but needs surgery
- Alinco had something, but not available
- Kenwood TK981/481
- Retevis RT10 - 1W $80
- Listen with Quansheng, but filters won't transmit.
- Baofeng with dirty harmonics might TX on 900MHz
- Baby monitors?
- SDR dongle
- Transverters

### Shared Bands
- Power meters are everywhere in the middle of the band,
  and the noise causes the FM squelch to stay closed.
- Everyone's trying to use the slivers on the end to avoid interference.
- Amplifiers can overcome the noisy power meters.
- Surplus amplifiers and antennas can be cheap.
- K3LV has a repeater in the area.
- Use it or lose it (already to the power meters).
- Power meters may go away after a while to move up to 2.4GHz
- Lots of competition for 900MHz - 2GHz - goes through the atmosphere easily.

<!--more-->
