---
title: "985 Workbench: 2025-10-20"
subtitle:
date: 2025-10-20
tags: ['985', 'workbench', 'w3gms', 'net']
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio
- enjoyed getting to the breakfast
  - great to be unemployed this summer
  - time to find a job, though
- 10M open lots for FT8: Azores today with 4W
- headed to ham fest in harrisburg on saturday
- great collection of probes for my multimeters
### Others
- W1RC, will:
  - local hamfest flea market
    - great gear
    - ten tec 555 scout, a favorite
      - adjustable bandwidth
- W3CRW, CR:
  - breakfast
- Manny:
  - considering budget and layout for first HF station
- WA3KFT, manny:
  - some nets
- KC3SCY, Luke:
  - working on CW
  - building a rig
- WA3VEE, Ron:
  - perkissee(?) hamfest
  - 10M this weekend for HF DX: CQ WW SSB Contest
    - great for technicians
  - acquired a cool cat whisker receiver before it got trashed
    - to restore
  - winter field day work
- AF3Z, Jim:
  - carried QRP gear to the beach, but didn't use it.
- KC3OOK, Bill:
  - usual nets
  - breakfast
  - finished his table and a row of equipment
  - working on a heath kit
  - ordered a speaker for the heath kit
- KC3NZT, Harvey:
### Questions
- AC3NW, Manny:
  - Considering antennas for HF in his neighborhood.
    - Trying to remain low-profile.
    - Vertical for HF: Hustler 5BTV
    - trapped vertical
  - WA3VEE, Ron:
    - used that antenna previously when he was a kid
    - 190 countries
    - 75m resonator
    - WAS on 75M SSB
    - for CW as well
    - solar cycle 20
    - russia, china, australia
    - used raised verticals
    - we've used that antenna at the field day site
  - K3FS, Renee:
    - an end-fed wire can be pretty invisible
  - KC3NZT, Harvey:
    - that vertical could be sort of conspicuous
    - an 80m dipole with ladder line would be a great multiband
    - has chosen to an EFHW for his home
  - W1RC, Mike:
    - likes his 130-ft EFRW + tuner for agility
  - AC3NW, Manny:
    - end-fed sounds interesting
- K3FS, Renee:
  - has an older amplifier, Clipperton L
  - runs 4 5072 tubes.
  - does not have a tuned front-end
  - used pi network to match impedence to the amplifier
  - there's a tuning module that can be inserted
    to give 50-ohm interface for transceiver.
  - doesn't have that module
  - would an automatic tuner match the amplifier that's not tuned?
  - WA3KFT, John:
    - uses a 7300 with that Clipperton L for 10 meters
    - has inserted an MFJ tuner between the transceiver and the amp.
    - built-in tuner may not have enough range
  - WA3VEE, Ron:
    - has no trouble driving the Clipperton L with 7610
    - caution: built a circuit to key it
  - WA3KFT, John:
    - also has a circuit of a transistor driving a relay to key the amplifier
    - DIC relay
  - WA3VEE, Ron:
    - can share keying circuit to be safe
  - KC3OOK, Bill:
    - learning about _his_ Clipperton L
  - WA3VEE, Ron:
    - another word of caution: look at the voltage on the relay.
    - it's driver at a high voltage, so it runs hot.
    - use an LM317 regulator to bring it down
  - K3FS, Renee:
    - great to see so many Clipperton Ls around.
    - already has some tuners to use
    - thanks for relay advice
    - will use a quiet relay
- KC3OOK, Bill:
  - How would one adapt a new speaker impedance
    to an old radio that uses higher impedance?
    matching wattage?
  - WA3VEE, Ron:
    - speakers are pretty forgiving
    - the volume may vary a little
    - large speakers could require more current to move the cone
    - try it and see
  - AF3Z, Jim:
    - 25W speaker doesn't need 25W, that's just the max
  - KC3NZT, Harvey:
    - speakers going into clipping is what damages them.
    - sensitivity is rated in dB at 1W at 1M from the speaker
    - pick a speaker that sounds good to you.
    - Liisong speakers are a great option for radios
    - pay attention to how it sounds. a clipping speaker sounds like garbage.
    - 90dB is the benchmark: quite loud.
    - 200-5000Hz is about what we need for SSB
    - find 8ohms or higher
- KD3EMS, Chris:
  - Church is using FRS Retevis radios,
    Does anyone have any recommendations for ear pieces for extended use?
  - KC3NZT, Harvey:
    - SAL Notes Zero

<!--more-->
