---
title: "985 Workbench: 2025-01-27"
subtitle:
date: 2025-01-27
tags: ['w3gms', '985', 'workbench', 'net']
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio
- Really glad to get to field day with 985.
- Customized my AllStar node for better mobile use:
  - DTMF to shutdown
  - DTMF announce IP address
  - Announce ip with the start up macro
- Btech UV-PRO with KISS TNC support
  - It does APRS internally
  - KISS TNC for packet to connect apps on the phone via bluetooth
    - AprsDroid
    - WoAD for Winlink and serial terminal
### Others
- W8CRW: field day
- WA3VEE: field day, photographs!
- KC3SCY, Luke:
  - Made 50 contacts on CW, goal was 10
  - Got a nice Drake 4x to help with CW and a new key
- W3FHA, John:
  - Working on a radio crammed with tubes
- W3JAM, Jeff:
  - Heard W3R on 80M CW, but didn't really operate
  - Pelican case for Bird meter and slugs for it.
  - Checked into Simplex Net and Welfare Net
- KC3HQZ, Jean:
  - Fun on Sunday at 985 field day
- KB3ILS, Keith:
  - Winter Field Day
  - Logging contacts for Joe
  - Heard, "I've been waiting for you" from AF3Z
    under another club call
  - Tried Joe's Begali straight key
  - Making room for a straight key
- AB3AP, Mike:
  - Bought a QSL card dated from 1949 that belonged to Dick, W3ORU,
    a recent SK from 985.
- WA3KFT, John:
  - Worked field day a bit
- KC3TYX, Vic:
  - Made a few field day contacts, but not much. He didn't hear W3R.
- KC3YIG, Dave:
  - Fun at field day
- NA3CW, Chuck:
  - Setup for WFD on Friday
  - Didn't operate the event
- KD3AIS, Tim:
  - Great time at 985 field day on Saturday
  - Met Harvey, KC3NZT
- KC3OOK, Bill:
  - South control for simplex net: 42 contacts
  - Welfare Net
- W3QP, Tim:
  - Fun at 985 field day
  - Had lots of RFI from electrical lines and other antennas
- N3CRE, Charlie:
  - Visited 985 WFD
- W3MFB, Mike:
  - Saw 985 field day on Sunday
  - Talked to KD3ACF, JT, a bunch
- K3YVQ, Jack:
  - 985 WFD
  - Learned about CW from Keith
- AA3LH, Leon:
  - Fun at field day, made some contacts
  - Looking forward to Summer Field Day
- KD3ACF, JT:
  - Got a cage for 705 and next POTA activation
  - Long chats with W3MFB
  - POTA hunting
  - New AllStar node
- AF3Z, Jim:
  - Operated Cornwall Ranger Station for WFD
  - Indoor station: 2I
  - Jim was their main CW op: 130 QSOs
  - Highlight: Saturday night, 80M,
    finally found W3R when Keith came to him.

### Questions
- KB3ILS, Keith:
  - When operating straight key,
    - Do you rest your forearm on the table?
    - How do you grip the straight key?
    - Operation tips?
  - WA3KFT, John:
    - 3 fingers on the knob, arm on the table, only wrist movement.
  - NA3CW, Chuck, concurs
  - AB3AP, Mike:
    - European style: float the arm
  - AF3Z, Jim:
    - In European style, key is often on the edge of the table.
    - Rests his arm on the table, grip thumb + next 2 fingers
    - Holds the key on his leg when camping
  - KB3ILS, Keith:
    - Luke is the operator he wants to emulate
- KC3YIG, Dave:
  - Electrovoice 719 mic needs a cartridge replacement.
    Tips, sources of parts, etc?
  - NA3CW, Chuck:
    - No experience changing mic cartridges
    - That mic seems similar to the D104 with a crystal cartridges
    - Specific cartridges can be hard to find
    - Some people seem to replace the cartridge with one from Heil
    - With age, cartridges don't sound right
- KD3AIS, Tim:
  - Has a Diamond 510HDM antenna, 17ft tall,
    can the antenna be placed near trees to hide it?
  - WA3VEE, Ron:
    - You're sounding good, so no hurry to put that up.
    - Ron's antenna is next to a bunch of bushes
    - Foliage won't attenuate much
    - It's fine
  - WA3KFT, John:
    - Long antennas have nice gain
    - Tie a pipe hitch to the antenna 1/3rd down from the top
    - Hoist it to hang in the tree
  - NA3CW, Chuck: Feb 2018 QST, "Live Trees Affect Antenna Performance"
    - Did simulations with HF
  - WA3VEE, Ron:
    - His installation is 3-4 feet away from the tree
      and elevated on army mast
  - AF3Z, Jim:
    - Has a tree in path of beam, and it doesn't seem to affect anything.
    - Hangs other antennas
  - KC3SQI, Wayne:
    - D300 stuck on a 2-inch piece of PVC attached to the deck railing
    - 10 ft from the ground
    - When he got above the roof, got an extra 2dB into repeater
    - Doesn't make a lot of difference

<!--more-->
