---
title: "985 Workbench: 2025-09-08"
subtitle:
date: 2025-09-08
tags: ['985', 'workbench', 'w3gms', 'net']
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio
- I tried to get in with RF,
  but couldn't make it, so on AllStar
- packet radio for Winlink and BBSes
  - like my old modem BBS days
  - phone + btech HT
- POTA, FT8 + CW
- learning value of chokes in the right places:
  computer interference from RF
- chasing CW POTA from home
- saw more FT8 this afternoon on 10M
  after a summer of quiet
- not ready to consider Winter Field Day and cold temps

### Others
- KC3SCY, Luke:
  - hamfests
  - check out Kutztown Hamfest coming up
  - 1929 hardware
  - practicing with CW on vinyl
- W1RC, Mike:
  - hamfest in the rain is good for deals
  - Nearfest is coming up in MA
- W8CRW, CR:
  - Mullica Hill Hamfest
- WA3VEE, Ron:
  - acquired some rare Dimac gear, which preceded HP
  - clearing out more stuff.
  - breakfast coming up
- KC3RFG, Jim:
  - antenna maintenance
- KB3ZIM, Bob:
  - talked to W3GMS mobile a bit
- KB3ILS, Keith:
  - Mullica Hill Hamfest in the rain
  - planning for Winter Field Day
  - got some parts for the parts box
    - power supply boards with heatsinks
    - some air variable capacitors
- AB3AP, Mike:
  - looking forward to Winter Field Day
  - traveling with army spouse: Orlando, Hawaii
- KC3SQI, Wayne:
  - antenna mast work, but not much
- KC3OOK, Bill:
  - net control for Simplex Net on Saturday
    and Welfare Net on Sunday
  - got an HP spectrum analyzer from Ron
  - tower work coming up at Joe's

### Questions
- KB3ILS, Keith:
  - Comment: POTA is great practice for CW,
    and KD3EE sounds easier
    to send than KB3ILS.
  - How do you clean up and make variable capacitors turn easily?
  - WA3VEE, Ron:
    - there's an electronics-friendly lube
      from the same people who make deoxit
    - oxidation may not have any effect on capacitance.
- KD3AIS, Tim:
  - He has a new vehicle with blanks in the dash.
    Can he add switches to the dash
    to switch on the radio?
    Should he use a relay instead of plain switch?
    What's the difference?
  - KB3ZIM, Bob:
    - some equipment demands more current than a switch
      (and wiring to it) will allow, so then you need a relay.
    - avoid heating of the switch, too.
  - W8CRW, CR:
    - relay for higher-current hardware.
    - maybe avoid connecting the radio
      to the vehicle power considering warranty.
  - KC3OOK, Bill:
    - check with Harvey
- KC3SQI, Wayne:
  - consider using a dedicated battery
    to avoid noise from the car electrical system
    - also keeps it from draining the car battery
- KC3YSM, Steve:
  - second the idea of a small dedicated battery
- WA3VEE, Ron:
  - 4 radios in the van,
    and none of them are connected
    to vehicle power system.
- KC3NZT, Harvey:
  - a relay is popular,
    because the connections
    on the back of a switch
    are often too small to handle the current
    without heat.
  - use low current to control high current
  - low current to the switch also makes it safe to pick anything
    handy as a ground, so you only need to run one wire.
- KC3YSM, Steve:
  - Dabbling in HF,
    and feeling like he may no longer be getting out
    like he had been.
    How should he evaluate his antenna?
    He doesn't have an antenna analyzer yet.
  - Can we do an antenna day at the field day site?
  - WA3VEE, Ron:
    - excellent idea.
    - remember it could be the bands.
      - check solar weather
    - come to the Thursday roundtable to discuss.
    - dxmaps, dxheat, dxsummit
    - hf propagation maps on google
    - watch SWR on the 991.
    - analyzers: rigexpert, mfj, bird, etc
  - KD3EE, John:
    - let's play at the next breakfast.
    - watch for solar storms
    - check that colorful chart on QRZ

<!--more-->
