---
title: "985 Workbench: 2025-11-03"
subtitle:
date: 2025-11-03
tags: ['985', 'workbench', 'net', 'w3gms']
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio
- other clubs
  - Learned about geochron:
    - old mechanical map with terminator lines
    - new digital one with all sorts of visualizations, including ham radio
  - Presentation on Antennas and feed line
    at a Ham Lunch in Harrisburg.
- US-1418, POTA:
  - FT8, 10M, mostly 1-2W, but 4W some times.
  - also 1 CW contact
- Built conveniences into software I use for my radio weblog
  - easily link park identifies to the POTA site
    and callsigns to QRZ profiles.
### Others
- KD3BPI, Simon:
  - Listening while mobile
- WA3VEE, Ron:
  - setup and plan for WFD
- KC3SCY, Luke:
  - PM/AM net
  - working on CW
  - Bruce Kelley Memorial event coming up in a couple weeks:
    - will operate 1929 TNT and 1929 Hartley
- KC3OOK, Bill:
  - Hosted Welfare Net
  - At Joe's to plan hardline from tower to building
  - worked on cable trays for his shack
- KC3KFT, John:
  - 10M has been open lately
  - Retired Net on 28435kHz or 28333kHz
- K3FF, Rene:
  - operated lots on CQ WW SSB. Lots on 10M.
  - working on Yaesu 991A that wouldn't power on initially. (lightning?)
  - insure your good equipment
- KD3AIS, Tim:
  - 1st General Class
- KD3BWL, Frank:
  - Learned about EchoLink
    - contacted a repeater in VA
  - other repeaters
- KC3MAI, Joe:
  - purchased a CW keyer to start learning
- W3QP, Tim:
  - Headed to Illinois for work:
    - aiming to activate Summits in Illinois and neighboring states
- K3DBD, Bob:
  - First time checking in to this net in a long time,
    even though being a long-time user.
  - 68 years into ham radio
  - chairman of technical committee in Pottstown Club.
  - preparing for ARRL Frequency Measuring Event on 8 November
  - fixing a broken PC board for an old wurlitzer juke box
- KC3YSM, Steve:
  - DXing: Chili, Italy, Canada
  - Mobile listening
  - Excited to hear Ron's plans for WFD
### Questions
- KC3MAI, Joe:
  - Has a keyer and paddles, how should he learn CW?
    - is it bad to start with paddles?
  - WA3KFT, John:
    - taught CW
    - with a staight key,
      you can practice spacing
      within a character as well as the timing of dit and dah (3*dit)
    - straight key is easier to control speed and start slower
  - WA3VEE, Ron:
    - Has gotten Rusty in CW
    - Used to be able to do 18WPM
    - Look at Koch Method and Farnsworth spacing
      - slow down by extending spacing between characters,
        not by slowing everything.
    - 10-15 minutes a day really helps.
  - W3GMS, Joe:
    - Call Joe and discuss at great length
    - CW instructor in the Military
    - Do not try any sending until you can copy 10 WPM
    - focus on recognizing the sound
    - don't count dits and dahs
  - AF3Z, Jim:
    - use CW software to train
    - ensure you practice at higher speed to avoid counting
    - G4FON software
  - NA3CW, Chuck:
    - don't ever look at a chart or page of dots and dashes
    - it's about sound
    - learn to receive well first
  - KB3ZIM, Bob:
    - https://morsle.fun/ is effective practice and lets you stretch for speed

<!--more-->
