---
title: "985 Workbench: 2025-05-26"
subtitle:
date: 2025-05-26
tags: ['w3gms', '985', 'workbench', 'net']
draft: false
---

### my week in radio

I did some FT8 at 1W
while camping and activating some POTA.
I compared a 41-ft EFRW
with a 17-ft vertical whip.
The resonant vertical was booming.

I also read that lots
of CW contesters are using computers
to send that fast.

### Others
- W8CRW, CR:
  - helped take down an antenna
  - local nets
- AB3AP, Mike:
  - some CW contacts
- NA3CW, Chuck:
  - PM/AM pre-net and net
  - taking down that tower with CR, Joe, and gang.
  - reclaiming some of the antenna hardware
  - working on Joe's tower
    - assemble to find the problems
    - very close
- KC3OOK, Bill:
  - helped with Joe's tower
  - break from the simplex net
- KC3SQI, Wayne:
  - finding 15m and 17m open
    - Germany, Alaska, Florida, etc
- AF3Z, Jim:
  - intermod sounds like a spaceship
  - considered doing WPX and a QRP sprint, but missed them.
- W1RC, Mike:
  - configuring a new AllStar node
    - got a node number
    - downloaded the pi image
    - written to a card
    - named it `allstar.local`,
      but can't get the browser to it.
- KD3AIS, Tim:
  - learning about noise on the waterfall from harvey
- WA3VEE, Ron:
  - testing sessions coming up
  - upcoming fox hunt
- W3JAM, Jeff:
  - assembling some spare masts for an OCF dipole
  - simplex net
- KC3YTD, Steve:
  - new Yaesu 991, working well for first HF

### Questions

- AB3AP, Mike:
  - Is anyone successful running trustedqsl (tqsl) on Ubuntu 25?
  - contact Dylan, K3DCN, for help
  - KC3WWC, John:
    - I have it working on debian unstable, from the standard repo.
  - AB3AP, Mike:
    - got it working!
    - using the wrong name: `trustedsql` instead of `qsl`
- W1RC, mike:
  - getting AllStar node booting,
    but can't access it by its name,
    `allstar.local`.
  - W8CRW, cr:
    - `mobaxterm`, like `putty`,
      to setup through text, instead of web interface
  - KC3WWC, John:
    - I often don't see .local network work either
    - try IP addresses near your computer
    - login to the configuration of your router to see the list of nodes

<!--more-->
