---
title: "985 Workbench: 2025-12-22"
subtitle:
date: 2025-12-22
tags: ['985', 'workbench', 'w3gms', 'net']
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio
- I discovered UV-Pro can mute a channel,
  which I applied to my APRS channel.
  - had gotten distracted by a feature to "mute digital signals",
    but that doesn't work very well: taking a while to recognize and mute
- took the speaker-wire doublet out for another test:
  - POTA after 985 breakfast
  - inverted-v
  - with a 4:1 balun + 1:1 current choke
    - tuned easily
    - no USB disconnects
  - 30 contacts with 1W FT8.
- I'm having a terrible time terminating RG174 + SMA: shorts
### Others
- {{<qrz WA3VEE>}}, Ron:
  - WFD is last full weekend of January: W3R
  - checked 40M dipole at the field day site: contacted Indiana
  - January 3, there's a testing session in northern delaware
- {{<qrz KC3RFG>}}, Jim:
  - PI-4 running ham clock died, lost SD card
- {{<qrz AA3LH>}}, Leon:
  - introduced a choke balun to his G5RV
- {{<qrz WA3KFT>}}, John:
  - 10M open: Oklahoma and Texas
- {{<qrz AF3Z>}}, Jim:
  - Pentec Trident 4 drifts as it warms up
- {{<qrz W3KZG>}}, Scott:
  - delivered a tower to Bill
- {{<qrz KC3NZT>}}, Harvey:
  - long wire came down, so building some new mono-filament linkages,
    for strain relief. those break instead of ripping stuff off the house.
- {{<qrz KC3OOK>}}, Bill:
  - simplex net, got to plymouth meeting
- {{<qrz KV3JGB>}}, Matt:
  - looking forward to WFD
  - starting CWOps fundamentals course
### Questions
- {{<qrz W8CRW>}}, CR:
  - Does anyone make a universal repeater for bluetooth
    to be able to use it 100 feet away?
    Specifically for battery data.
  - {{<qrz KV3JGB>}}, Matt:
    - most extenders are for audio
  - {{<qrz KC3NZT>}}, Harvey:
    - could instrument the battery to get and publish your own statistics
- {{<qrz AA3LH>}}, Leon:
  - Would a 1:1 current choke benefit a vertical ham stick?
  - {{<qrz KD3EE>}}, John:
    - may help. I use it to keep RFI out of the radio and the computer.
    - for verticals, I'll often add that choke and radials.
  - {{<qrz NA3CW>}}, Chuck:
    - like chicken soup, it may help, but it won't hurt.
- {{<qrz AF3Z>}}, Jim:
  - His Pentec Triton 4 drifts up and down as it warms.
    What causes a radio to drift?
  - {{<qrz WA3VEE>}}, Ron:
    - could be a leaky capacitor
    - heat related some way
    - odd that it drifts both ways
  - {{<qrz NA3CW>}}, Chuck:
    - test the tester, read-out
    - check with an online radio
  - {{<qrz WA3VEE>}}, Ron:
    - google says it drifts
  - {{<qrz KC3NZT>}}, Harvey:
    - eHam forum people say ignore the read-out and see what the
      receiving side is seeing.

<!--more-->
