---
title: "985 Workbench: 2025-07-21"
subtitle:
date: 2025-07-21
tags: ['985', 'w3gms', 'workbench', 'net']
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio
- I found the nicest state game land for a POTA:
  It had parking and a game commission maintenance building,
  so could sit in the shade.
- I got a replacement UV-PRO
  which transmits fine on 2M / APRS.
- I'm playing with another cheap RadTel with APRS.
  It has features from all my favorite radios,
  but the interface makes the other radios look nice.
- I found 6M open to Florida around noon,
  then Wisconsin later in the afternoon today.

### Others
- NA3CW, Chuck:
  - chasing a noise source in the neighborhood,
    a pole at the end of the street
- W3QP, tim:
  - operated  from assateague
  - got a nasa special event station in Huntsville AL
    for 50th anniversary of moon landing
- W3MFB, Mike:
  - big openings this evening on 10M and above.
- WA3VEE, Ron:
  - there's a commercial mobile telephone company looking
    to use some of 70cm.
  - see Joe's email for suggested responses.
### Questions
- AF3Z, Jim:
  - During flooding in Mount Joy,
    Jim had his shop vac running continuously
    in the basement along with sump pump.
    When sump pump activated,
    the shop vac would rev up,
    then when the sump pump turned off,
    the vac slowed down.
    He tried later with fridge and meter.
    When fridge turned on,
    125V outlet boosted up to 127V.
    The microwave on high could cause a jump to 139V.
  - KS4CK, Bruce:
    - 240V comes into the house, plus the ground in the box.
      If the ground isn't solid,
      then a large draw on one leg can cause
      an increase to be observed in voltage
      on the other leg.
    - Call your electric company to address it.
    - 13V delta is a lot.
    - It could be anywhere even back to the transformer,
      so ask the neighbor.
  - WA3VEE, Ron:
    - agrees that it's a bad ground
  - NA3CW, Chuck:
    - bad ground can be dangerous

<!--more-->
