---
title: "985 Workbench - 2025-05-12"
date: 2025-05-12T00:00:00Z
tags: ['985', 'workbench', 'w3gms', 'net']
draft: false
---

## My Week in Radio

I ran APRS in the mountains past Carlisle
and observed many of the same nodes,
indicating a wide reach.
I also installed and began testing the new R1CBU 0.30.0 firmware
for my X6100 HF Radio.
Additionally,
I launched a new 80m EFHW antenna,
and I'm seeing all the harmonic resonances
near the right places,
though it still needs some tuning.

## Others

* **WA3VEE, Ron:**
  High schoolers are listening,
  so we should say, "Hi".
  A new club might be forming.
* **W8CRW, CR:**
  Participated in regular nets.
* **KC3SCY, Luke:**
  Recommended getting a General class license
  for access to more frequencies.
  He failed to get onto the AM PM net.
* **KD3ZIM, Bob (relayed by Ron):**
  Advised getting licensed early and having fun.
* **NA3CW, Chuck:**
  Stated that the AM PM Net
  is shifting to avoid overly long propagation and interference.
  He's still working on Joe's tuner,
  and pieces are coming in
  for Joe's tower as well.
* **KD3AIS, Tim:**
  Attended a ham group
  where he was considered a "young person" at 51!
  He attempted to participate in a 10M net but failed.
* **WA3KFT, John:**
  Building another 2M/440 antenna
  and making cables.
  He's soon looking for help finishing up those projects.
* **W3QP, Tim:**
  This weekend is the SOTA North East meetup.
* **KC3YIG, Dave:**
  Working on a home-made vertical antenna.

## Questions

* **W8CRW, CR:**
  He's using lithium phosphate batteries
  in his car and lead-acid in the shack.
  Does anyone have experience trying
  to desulphate a battery that won't take a charge?
  * **NA3CW, Chuck:**
  Has a charger that claims to desulphate a battery,
  and it seems to work.
  He "jumped" the battery
  with a power supply to get it started,
  then ran the desulphating charger
  for a couple of weeks.

* **KD3AIS, Tim:**
  He's a Technician studying for his General license
  and is trying 10 meters.
  He visited the 10-10 org website,
  looking at propagation charts and nets,
  which showed poor propagation.
  Are these sites correct?
  * **W3QP, Tim:**
    Those charts provide good information
    but are not the final word.
  * **NA3CW, Chuck:** 
    Ten-Ten is a good organization,
    but suggests throwing out a CQ,
    as everyone could be listening.
  * **WA3KFT, John:**
    Watching 28435kHz for DX chat and local nets.
  * **KC3WWC, John:**
    Check `prop.kc2g.org` for in-depth information.
  * **KC3SQI, Wayne:**
    Tune down through the digital parts of the band
    and looking for activity.
  * **WA3VEE, Ron:**
    Try Ham Clock and the DXView site,
    note that global conditions may not match local conditions.

* **KC3WWC, John:**
  Is there an easy way to do preset connections in Allstar 3.
  * **W8CRW, CR:**
    Look into Supermon.

<!--more-->
