---
title: "985 Workbench: 2025-01-06"
subtitle:
date: 2025-01-06
tags: ['985', 'workbench', 'w3gms', 'net']
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio
- ARRL RTTY RoundUp
- Testing and repairing a piece of coax
  - no damage in the middle
  - NanoVNA, Smith chart, compared ends
    - one side showed  along spiral
    - other end
  - compared to a working cable
### Questions
- KC3OOK, Bill:
  - For lifepo4 batteries, what's the proper way to charge and discharge?
  - W3QP, Tim:
    - depends how often you use the battery.
    - for storage, 50% capacity is good
    - otherwise charge it up full.
    - don't keep it full all of the time.
    - not much of an issue, though
  - W3MOW, MIKE:
    - researching electric vehicles.
    - whatever you do to treat it better will just prolong battery life a bit
    - there will be better replacements in a couple years.
- KC3WWC, John:
  - I'm using my 71-foot random wire with a 9:1 unun.
    - I can give it 5W on many bands without the tuner.
    - It's working, so not all loss.
    - Checked it at with the NanoVNA at different points
      and it stayed pretty low.
    - Disconnecting the wire definitely ruined SWR,
      proving to me that power is getting out into the wire,
      besides it otherwise working.
    - What am i seeing?
  - W3QP, Tim:
    - SWR is great for a rough indicator for reflected energy
    - reactance is more important for efficiency
    - losses can mislead you with SWR
    - any piece of wire will resonate at different harmonnics
    - had a shorter wire was resonant at some harmonics that happened to work
  - KC3SQI, Wayne:
    - with a random wire,
      the balun takes SWR of the antenna
      and reduces it by a factor of 10.
    - Tuner can offer extra protection for the radio
    - a random wire antenna is to be a bit off and close enough for most radios
    - he uses his random wire 71-foot random wire he uses for POTA,
      but barely needs the tuner.
  - NA3CW, Chuck:
    - every SWR meter is measuring voltage, current, and time.
    - ratio of voltage and current = resistance
    - a resonant antenna can have a high SWR
      because it's feed impedence is not matched.
    - measuring voltage, current, reactance.
    - meters can be calibrated for other impedences, not just 50ohm.
    - SWR compares voltage, current, phase (time) with internal 50ohm reference.
    - watch amplitude of voltage and current on scope,
      and see it out of phase.
    - can have a low SWR on non-resonant antenna
    - can have high SWR on resonant antenna
    - longer pieces of wire can have more resonances
    - resonances may or may not fall in useful places.
    - low SWR does not mean efficient. could be losses.
    - all lengths of wire will have certain resonances.
    - everyone went with 50ohms as a standard.
    - TV coax is 75 ohms.
    - transformers get it close to what the radio wants.
- KV3JGB, Matt:
  - He has a Vibroplex, single lever,
    usually thumb is dit, finger is dah,
    but he's reversed the dits and dahs for comfort.
  - Does it matter if he works reversed?
  - AF3Z, Jim:
    - probably doesn't matter
    - he learned left handed first then right
  - WA3KFT, John:
    - read about telegraph keys and bugs (semi-automatic keys)
    - Vibroplex made a mechanical key that's left-handed
  - AB3AP, Mike:
    - left-handed bugs are more expensive
  - KC3WWC, John:
    - I key left-handed,
      and I'll have to reconfigure anyone else's radio,
      or flip the key.
    - I just flipped the key to reverse it,
      and was able to adjust with a moment of practice.
- KD3AIS, Tim:
  - Who would you suggest to help install an antenna on the chimney?
  - KV3JGB, Matt:
    - lots of people are willing to help
    - antenna launch parties
    - Matt would help
  - KC3WWC, John:
    - try compromised installations for some more independent capabilities
  - NA3CW, Chuck:
    - come to a breakfast
    - let's talk about your intentions, site, etc.

<!--more-->
