---
title: "985 Workbench: 2025-01-13"
subtitle:
date: 2025-01-13
tags: ['985', 'w3gms', 'workbench', 'net']
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio
- discovering some good old packet radio
  - 145.010
  - listen with `multimon-ng`
  - search for a terminal program for android and linux
- patched my favorite firmware (f4hwn)
  to better render the spectrum analyzer
  for wide or narrow scan ranges
  - built and tested on my own radio
  - patch was accepted to the open source project,
    so it'll be in the next release
- POTA in the cold in prep for field day
### Others
- W8CRW, CR:
  - new radio from HRO
- WA3VEE, Ron:
  - after 985 breakfast, at field day site,
    will be introducing radios for field day
- KC3RFG, Jim:
  - first Raspberry PI kit for a Ham Clock
- KC3YSM, Steve:
  - nets and POTA
    - all US: GA, AL, MI
- AB3AP, Mike:
  - hanging out on 30m
  - learning to touch-type instead of handwriting from CW
    - ARRL MP3s online
    - 15 WPM typing, 18 WPM is a challenge
    - jots keywords usually to be faster
- KC3OOK, Bill:
  - hosted last roundtable
  - net control for simplex net
  - working on ham shack
  - windy: gust of 39mph, antenna survived
- KC3SQI, Wayne:
  - couldn't get to the repeater due to lots of QRN
    from powerlines, trains, etc.
- AF3Z, Jim:
  - SKCC had a weekend sprint-a-thon.
    - operated from Cornwall station as W3CRS
    - they were in 1st place until other clubs started uploading logs :)
- W3MFB, Mike:
  - experimenting using gutter and down spout
    and speaker wire as HF antenna
    - 10W and it worked.
    - recommending a similar setup to a friend
### Questions
- WA3VEE, Ron:
  - We're putting together some seminars/classes
    to share experience and knowledge.
  - What would you like to talk about? theory or operation?
  - NA3CW, Chuck:
    - get the scope and meters out and discuss impedance, etc.
  - KC3OOK, Bill:
    - Ron's discussion on oscilloscopes
  - AF3Z, Jim:
    - general approach to trying to fix something
    - how to check equipment: bandpass filters, crystals
  - W3MFB, Mike:
    - understanding solar data
  - NA3CW, Chuck:
    - propagation
  - KB3ZIM, Bob:
    - revisit antennas and feedlines and their attributes
  - KC3WWC, John:
    - kit night to build something
    - favorite equipment on the bench that others should have
  - KC3OOK, Bill:
    - soldering technique
    - all basic test equipment
    - NA3CW, Chuck: validating readings from equipment
  - AF3Z, Jim:
    - surface mount soldering
    - NA3CW, Chuck: good tweasers
  - KC3RFG, Jim:
    - refresher on setup and use of NanoVNA
  - W3MFB, Mike:
    - soldering coax
  - KC3WWC, John:
    - digital modes old and new
  - AF3Z, Jim:
    - sorting out limitations of test equipment, signal levels
  - W3MFB, Mike:
    - tutorial for the young folks, how to build a repeater
  - KC3SQI, Wayne:
    - how do you find an interfering signal, fox hunting.
  - KC3OOK, Bill:
    - basic circuits
  - NA3CW, Chuck:
    - understanding antenna gain

<!--more-->
