---
title: "985 Workbench: 2025-06-30"
subtitle:
date: 2025-06-30
tags: ['w3gms', 'net', 'workbench', '985']
draft: false
---

### My Weeks in Radio
- traveling
  - Chino Hills State Park near Los Angeles
  - 2 activations
  - hiked and biked my gear in on my back
- Field Day QRP, emergency power, on the patio, at home, 50 contacts = 650 pts
### Others
- W8CRW, CR:
  - 985 field day
- KC3HQZ, Jean:
  - 985 field day
- AC2EG, Eric:
  - new the group and field day
  - rather build than buy, but using echolink right now
- AA3LH, Leon:
  - mostly dups at field day
- KV3JGB, :
- KC3SQI, Wayne:
  - 10 meter antenna mast assembled and ready to go
- KC3WWC, John:
  - (making it in over RF)
- KC3TYX, Vic:
  - field day in maryland
- NA3CW, Chuck:
  - Field day prep, operation, cleanup
  - PM/AM Net on Sunday
- KC3OOK, Bill:
  - hosted a modified roundtable on 985 simplex, 
    since power was out on repeater
  - simplex net
  - field day
- KD3EMS, Chris:
  - 985 field day observing AF3Z operate along with NA3CW
  - 7-8 contacts
  - need to get general license
- AF3Z, Jim:
  - field day
    - CW with luke
- W3KZG, Scott:
  - 985 field day
- KC3SCY, Luke:
  - 985 field day
  - logging had some trouble
  - pretty smooth, otherwise
  - working on CW
  - planning to chase 13 colonies
    - work them early in the morning
- W3QP, Tim:
  - K3H, Pennnsylania Homestead Festival in Kutztown
    - looking for operators for the weekend
- W3MFB, Mike:
  - heard VHF packet propagation, so made some contacts
    - 6m
- WA3VEE, Ron:
  - 1400 contacts total at field day
  - collecting photos from field day for the smugmug gallery

### Questions
- KC3HQZ, Jean:
  - Why does a GOTA station have a different call sign
    from field day activities?
  - AF3Z, Jim:
    - GOTA is meant to encourage newcomers and guests.
    - It's a bonus station that doesn't count
      in the total simultaneous stations.
    - May be worth more points on its own.
  - W3MFB, Mike:
    - helps keep count of contacts made by newbies and guests.
- KC3SQI, Wayne:
  - Considering changing from a Windom to a Hex Beam (25lbs)
    with a 1-foot base pole to the rotor,
    Would a small ChannelMaster TV antenna rotor work
    without a thrust-bearing at 30 feet?
  - KC3OOK, Bill:
    - Bill is new, but...
    - 25lbs sounds like a lot for an antenna,
      so might tend toward the better rotor.
  - W3MFB, Mike:
    - Agrees with Bill, spring for the better rotor.
    - Has seen a TV rotor drive lighter (6lb) antennas,
      but that's much lighter.
    - TV antennas are only 10lbs or so.
  - N3OGF, John:
    - destroyed a radioshack rotor in high wind with a kushkraft
  - W3ZKG, Scott:
    - rotor doesn't have a weight spec, but try to keep the rotor
      as close to the antenna as possible.
    - 25lbs seems heavy.
    - lesser rotors use plastic instead of bearings
  - WA3VEE, Ron:
    - some specs on google suggest 15lbs capacity.
    - consider the extra weight of ice
  - KC3SQI, Wayne:
    - may try the thrust bearing and lighter rotor
- KC3WWC, John:
  - I have a long EFHW for 80M,
    but it's hard to get lined up on all bands,
    so I need the tuner to touch it up for half the bands.
    If I need the tuner for some bands,
    is there much benefit to this EFHW
    over a 71-foot random wire I really liked.
  - NA3CW, Chuck:
    - RG58 is giving loss
    - Generally, you don't want to tune high SWR through "thin" coax
    - tuning at the wire would be better
  - W3QP, Tim:
    - It's normal for EFHW in trees to not necessarily line-up
    - Don't know efficiencies of 49:1 vs 9:1 vs 64:1.
      That could make a difference.
    - stack cores to handle more power in the transformers
    - there are ways to measure with nano-vna.
    - it depends what SWR you're pulling on each band.
    - transformer has different effeciencies on each band.
- KD3AIS, Tim:
  - As a newer ham, not a general yet,
    listening on Yaesu FT-991A to traffic,
    is an external screen useful?
  - W3MFB, Mike:
    - He operated the 991A at field day,
      and the waterfall is pretty low-res,
      but wouldn't bother with a larger screen.
    - recommends using ears and turning the dial
    - listen and make sure he can understand the station,
      write it all down, then contact.
  - W8CRW, CR:
    - agrees with Mike, listen
    - but also has a display connected to his radio as a bonus
  - W3KZG, Scott:
    - also has a DX-10 with the built-in display and an external screen.
    - didn't miss it on or off on field day
    - use a DDI cable to ensure no feeding voltage back into the radio
  - NA3CW, Chuck:
    - had Ron's 710 with the little screen, plugged into a big screen.
    - easier to see settings and meters
    - especially when visitors were trying to see
    - bandscope got sort of useless with higher noise levels
    - for bands that come and go (6m, 10m),
      it's good to see intermittent traffic
  - KC3WWC, John:
    - I like the waterfall, so I spot activity, like lots of CW.
- W3MFB, Mike:
  - Are 6M and 2M beams at field day site always available for use?
  - NA3CW, Chuck:
    - as long as it's up, it's available
    - it'll need coax

<!--more-->
