---
title: "985 Workbench: 2025-03-03"
subtitle:
date: 2025-03-03
tags: ['985', 'net', 'w3gms', 'workbench']
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio
- launched the newly-tuned slim-jim antenna
  - tuned the antenna, soldered in a bit more wire at the top
  - hung right below my quarter-wave
  - compared both antennas simultaneously with the 2 quansheng HTs
    with dBm measurements
  - lower antenna is for the Btech radio running APRS
  - upper antenna for general scanning and local
- learned about 900MHz radio at the SPARC meeting
- learned about satellite work at 21 lunch in Harrisburg
- had the thru-window cable flake out during check-in

### Questions
- W3JAM, Jeff:
  - Has anyone used delving or divining rods
    for finding water or power lines?
  - KC3WWC, John:
    - Tried it as a kid with copper wire rods to find water
      and wires around the house.
    - Seemed much like the Ouija board with wires. Probably just recognized it.
  - KC3OOK, Bill: Had some well drillers do it,
    but seemed like part of the show.
  - WA3VEE, Ron:
    - Can't see how it would work, especially a wooden stick.
    - Would need quite the field to cause movements in the wire
    - Probably easier to attribute it to minute recognitions of the douser.
  - KC3SQI, Wayne:
    - Has known dousers for water to use Green Willow Stick.
  - N3OGF, John:
    - His Dad doused for water lots of times.
  - W1RC, Mike:
    - There's a Dousers Convention in Vermont.
  - KC3OOK, Bill:
    - His well is 300 ft down.
    - Water doesn't really "flow" underground.
  - NA3CW, Chuck:
    - Knew a custom home builder who was a douser.
    - If you drilled somewhere else, would there still have been water?
    - Stick would rotate up and back toward him near the water line.
    - Sister tried it and felt it, even though she may have tried
      to fight the movement.
  - W3JAM, Jeff:
    - Read an article, and he's trying to find a conductor.
    - Doesn't think it'll work.
- KC3MAI, Joe:
  - QRM, HF Noise on low bands.
    - S5 noise on 40m
    - S3 on 80M and 160M
  - Is a certain amount of noise to be expected? Can it be remediated?
  - WA3VEE, Ron:
    - QRM vs QRN: man-made vs natural
    - Static from lightning
    - Static from wind
    - Solar panel noise
    - Man-made noise can be fixed if it's in your house
      - Try running off battery
      - Eliminate electrical things to see if anything fixes it
      - Cut the whole breaker
      - A dead short across the antenna may still see noise: thermal noise
        - noise floor
    - Neighborhood noise might be hard to remediate.
  - NA3CW, Chuck:
    - Has nearby PECO, appliances, Amtrak
    - Searched and found bad wall wart power supplies
    - Neighborhood plasma TV that growls on 75M
    - Has tracked down bad power line hardware
  - KC3MAI, Joe:
    - Has several Rokus that might have unclean power supplies.
  - KC3KFT, John:
    - Pole insulators on power lines can arc
      depending on weather, humidity, contamination.
    - 6M AM is a good band/mode for searching for noise also 2M AM.
    - Hit the pole with a sledge hammer to see if the noise changes
  - WA3VEE, Ron:
    - Crackling on hot humid nights near high voltage lines.
    - Wide-band spark
    - Every wire is an antenna, so could be an emitter.
    - CFL or LED lights
  - KD3ZIM, Bob:
    - Had a noise problem several years ago.
    - Called PECO, suspecting power line noise.
    - PECO traced the noise and fixed it.
      - cool receivers and spectrum analyzers
      - checked his scope in his shack and got started.
      - found the line 100-150yds from the house
      - heard the buzzing like welding.
      - cracked insulator on the pole
  - NA3CW, Chuck:
    - AM transistor radio is a good sensor for the noise
    - W3GMS, Joe, has some experience working with PECO
  - KB3ZIM, Bob:
    - Call PECO or Bob or Joe to get Dennis from PECO to do the search.
    - Power lines can carry the "transmission" miles
  - KC3WWC, John:
    - I've seen videos on Youtube of people searching
    - Electric company is responsible for cleaning up those emissions
    - You can build a tape-measure yagiA for searching
    - POTA can be low noise area
    - Hear and see the crackles of very distant lightning.
    - Check the radio power supply

<!--more-->
