---
title: "985 Workbench: 2025-02-17"
subtitle:
date: 2025-02-17
tags: ['985', 'w3gms', 'workbench', 'net']
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio
- Wind is nerve-wracking with my "temporary" antennas
  - long wire broke
  - one 1/4-wave ground plane worked itself loose and disconnected.
  - yagi on the aluminum pole is good
- X6100 was having trouble running and charging its failing internal battery
  - disable charging and it's OK again.
- R1CBU 0.29.0 firmeware for X6100
  - finding and filing some bugs
  - they're already getting fixed
  - will probably need to revert back to the older version
- Norfolk Island, VK9DX, FT8 on 10M, with only 2W.
- Radio with a waterfall is amazing to watch during CW contest weekends.
  - something is up!
### Others
- N3ILS, Travis:
  - setup Allstar node for travel
- KC3SCY, Luke:
  - listening to W1AW on Drake 4TRX for code practice
- W3QP, Tim:
  - trouble with IC-7300 on battery. blown fuze on one pole.
  - all bands on fan dipole have high SWR after wind damage
- KC3RFG, Jim:
- KC3YSM, Steve:
  - working on some DX with the cold weather
  - needed to adjust some audio settings for TX. much improvement.
- NA3CW, Chuck:
  - Steve, good clean audio is so important for breaking the DX pile-up
  - hosted pre- and actual PMAM net
  - magneto synchronizer for an airplane, rebuild, repair
- KC3OOK, Bill:
  - simplex net: east had some trouble, so running late.
    - 23 contacts
    - drywalling the ham shack
- KC3TYX, Vic:
  - weekly nets
  - tried a 10M net, went OK
  - hard to tell what was happening on simplex net from his station
- KC3TRW, Mike:
  - programming up some radios
- WA3KFT, John:
  - busy on VHF by his paper log, including a little 6m and 10m.
  - sorting parts and cleaning up the benches
- AF3Z, Jim:
  - some CW
  - working on an old heathkit TRX
    - removed some solder and resoldered
- KD3AKZ, Wayne
  - getting a rig on the air
    - still has a beep
  - studying for general
- KC3NZT, Harvey:
  - building an antenna on an off-road magmount
    that was previously recommended.
    - tested well with nanovna
    - very strong magnets
    - mapping out some coax: shorter and better coax is better
### Questions
- N3ILS, Travis:
  - Is it OK to use the internal tuner of the IC-7300
    in series with an external tuner at the same time?
  - KC3NZT, Harvey: is it an automatic icom tuner connected by aux port
  - N3ILS: it is a manual MFJ tuner.
  - WA3KFT, John:
    - uses both internal and external tuner.
    - sometimes one tuner gets you all the way there
    - stacking them won't hurt anything
    - but it's inefficient.
  - W3CRW, CR:
    - uses Yaesu with 2 tuners in series.
    - heavy lifting with the external LDG
    - fine-tune it with the internal.
  - KC3NZT, Harvey:
    - IC-7300 can be made to match 10:1 in "emergency mode".
      - it requires some of your power.
    - Does stacking the tuner skew the readings in the radio?
    - has used an automatic external tuner for icom. it disables the internal.
  - NA3CW, Chuck:
    - tune the external tuner with internal disabled to get close
    - then fine-tune to get the rest of the way.
    - combo could result in weirdo impedance between them,
      if done in the wrong order.
  - WA3VEE, Ron:
    - what NA3CW said
    - 2 auto tuners will compete and cause trouble
  - N3ILS, Travis:
    - Dave Cassler has a video saying "never stack them",
      but that's auto tuners.
  - KC3RFG, Jim:
    - Dave Cassler's video _is_ about 2 auto tuners.
- KC3RFG, Jim:
  - Why does my SWR go up with ice on the antenna?
    It drifted from 1.2:1 to 2:1.
  - WA3KFT, John:
    - ice on the antenna changes the diameter. it's a conductor.
  - NA3CW, Chuck:
    - water dialectric constant is 80, compared to PVC insulation with 4.
  - KC3OOK, Bill:
    - observed the same thing. jumped to 3:1.
  - AF3Z, Jim:
    - 10M vertical dipole fed by old window line with a tuner.
    - any time it rains, the normal settings don't work.
  - KC3RFG, Jim:
    - he has 40-foot tall bamboo, and he can tap the wire to de-ice it.
- NA3CW, Chuck:
  - this Friday is the breakfast
  - AWA PM/AM Net 3835kHz
    - https://www.antiquewireless.org/homepage/weekly-awa-nets/

<!--more-->
