---
title: "985 Workbench: 2025-09-15"
subtitle:
date: 2025-09-15
tags: ['985', 'workbench', 'net', 'w3gms']
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio
- seeing more "alternate" FT8 traffic on the waterfall:
  dxpeditions and contests!
- tempted to replace my old cheap coax with something lower-loss
  for my 50W VHF to compare.
  - bust out the attenuators and the tinySA
    or maybe just the little digital power meter
    I have to measure at the antenna feed point.
- bring a wire and a whip to demo the Nano VNA before or after breakfast.

### Others
- WA3CRW, CR:
  - working with W1RC to do some WIRES-X
- W3JAM, Jeff:
  - Simplex Net
  - Central PA Skywarn Net
  - Heathkit 102 on the workbench for refurbishment
  - amplifier and odds and ends to fix and sell
  - looking at antennas to mount on the barn
  - rebuilding a 16 element yagi for more convenient deployment/tuning
- WA3VEE, Ron:
  - won't be at breakfast, but Antique Radio Show instead in Kutztown
  - Red Rose Repeater Hamfest coming up on Oct 4.
  - has some gear from some other people to unload
- KB3ZIM, Bob:
  - wondering about 160m antennas:
    - been meaning to launch an antenna every year this time of year.
    - maybe inverted L.
  - IC-7100: radio in 2 pieces,
    so you don't need so much at the control head.
    - using a 75-foot cat8 cable
      for a really long run
      between TCVR and head.
    - run to the gazebo to operate outside
      but high power if he wants.
    - lots of fun chasing on all bands.
- KC3YSM, Steve:
  - building a go-box
- WA3KFT, John:
  - 6m SSB nets
  - antique wireless net on sunday
- W3MFB, Mike:
  - VHF contest. spoke to someone randomly.
  - working some special events and pota stations
- KC3OOK, Bill:
  - working at Joe's on antenna
- KC3SQI, Wayne:
  - moving antennas to the new mast
    - 2m operational
- KD3AIS, Tim:
  - collecting equipment to put radio in truck
- KD3APR, Paxton:
  - coming in on an HT
- AA3LH, Leon:
  - feeling better today
- AF3Z, Jim:
  - normal CW sked

### Questions
- KD3EE, John:
  - I have my 50W mobile radio, home-built YAGI, 75ft cheap coax
    in a couple connected sections.
    How should I evaluate this system?
  - WA3VEE, Ron:
    - check that the antenna is matched with the nanoVNA: SWR
    - have people on the repeater talk,
      so I can point for maximum signal
  - KC3SQI, Wayne:
    - with nanoVNA, calibrate at the nanoVNA,
      then move calibration load to end
      and use a through-measurement to see loss in coax.
  - AF3Z, Jim:
    - bury-flex is a good deal
  - KC3SQI, Wayne:
    - if you're going to an LMR type cable,
      should good with bury-flex,
      since the outside doesn't allow moisture.
      they use glue between outside braid and the seal.
      bury-flex will need heated a little
      to force the crimp end underneath the braid
    - buryflex is available at ham radio outlet.
- KB3ZIM, Bob:
  - What are some 160m antenna options?
  - height and length is a challenge.
  - aiming for an inverted L, but the radials will be a challenge.
  - W3GMS, Joe:
    - 240-foot wire, 60ft in the air, fed by open wire line
    - 3/8-wave would need less radials
      - could be end-fed or inverted L
      - not balanced, so noisy
      - will need a tuner to match
    - 1/4 wave would need extensive radials
  - KC3NZT, Harvey:
    - $150 automatic tuner outside. tunes anything.

<!--more-->
