---
title: "985 Workbench: 2025-12-01"
subtitle:
date: 2025-12-01
tags: ['985', 'w3gms', 'workbench', 'net']
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio
- playing with my speaker wire doublet portable
  - extended to 44ft end to end
  - 10M and 40M tuned with some work
  - 20M tuned easily,
    but killed the radio's USB connection
    with every TX
  - adding a current balun for next test
- CQ WW CW 2025
  - 20 contacts on CW
  - estimated maybe 200 points
  - heard Hawaii on 40M
- participated in Simplex Net, and got a strong signal to west control
### Others
- {{<qrz W1RC>}}, Mike:
  - sorted stuff in the garage decide its fate
- {{<qrz W3MFB>}}, Mike:
  - hosted the roundtable last week and this week
  - heard all the controls of simplex net
  - 10M HF work mobile
- {{<qrz WA3VEE>}}, Ron:
  - visited Bar Harbor area: Elsworth and Bar Harbor repeaters
- {{<qrz K3FF>}}, Rene:
  - installed capacitor board into Clipperton:
    - full voltage and working!
    - 700-800W out: needs some new tubes
  - ATU-1000 kit
    - follow picture to assemble
- {{<qrz KB3MNA>}}, Chris:
  - setting up home station
  - studying for General
- {{<qrz W3QP>}}, Tim:
  - activated all the summits in iowa: 2 of them
  - South Dakota, Minnesota, Wisconsin
  - Friday is Pottstown Club meeting: why you should be chasing SOTA
- {{<qrz KD3BPI>}}, Simon:
  - shopping HF rigs on FB marketplace
  - studying for general
- {{<qrz NA3CW>}}, Chuck:
  - PMAM Net: 16 checkins
    - good conditions
    - lots of DX 100 heathkits sounding good
- {{<qrz KC3OOK>}}, Bill:
  - central control for simplex net
- {{<qrz W3KZG>}}, Scott:
  - replaced truck radio with IC-7100
  - made a few HF contacts
- {{<qrz WA3KFT>}}, John:
  - Antique Wireless 40M Net saw lots of New England
  - 10M is open
- {{<qrz KD3AIS>}}, Tim:
  - 30-inch antenna on magmount didn't work out on truck
  - playing with meshtastic: T-Beam supreme
- {{<qrz KV3JGB>}}, Matt:
  - studying CWOps to refresh
### Questions
- {{<qrz W8CRW>}}, CR:
  Made a homebrew antenna for Simplex Net.
  How would one figure out the max power for a homebrew antenna?
  - {{<qrz NA3CW>}}, Chuck:
    - "it depends"
    - size of conductor
    - contacts
    - insulation (voltage)
    - cores
    - cables
    - durability of all the components
    - a dipole and wire line with good insulators can take multiple kW
    - transformers and coils introduce weak points
  - {{<qrz W3KZG>}}, Scott:
    - matching circuit of a commercial antenna introduces limitations
    - in simple dipole, the feed line may be the only limit
    - run some power and see if anything is getting hot
  - {{<qrz WA3VEE>}}, Ron:
    - components and size of wire
    - capacitors have ratings
    - figure out the voltage on the antenna: it's in the study manual
  - {{<qrz WA3KFT>}}, John:
    - on a simple dipole, the feed point is low-voltage,
      but the ends are very high, so that's where you need the insulation
  - {{<qrz W3MFB>}}, Mike:
    - can cut insulators from PTFE scraps.
  - {{<qrz NA3CW>}}, Chuck:
    - at very high power, the sharp ends will form corona discharges.
      - round ends or put balls on it
      - not a problem for our power
    - a shortwave station in the Andes years ago would burn off the ends
      of the antennas, so they went to egg-beater ends.
  - {{<qrz W8CRW>}}, CR:
    - it's actually a simple quarter-wave ground-plane
    - good to know 100W will be nothing for it
- {{<qrz AF3Z>}}, Jim:
  - Hasn't put specific insulator on his dipole,
    just tied to some paracord.
    Does a real insulator make a difference?
  - {{<qrz WA3KFT>}}, John:
    - on a 40M or 80M dipole, the end will be high voltage.
    - nylon cord is probably fine at 100W.
    - if it absorbs and holds water, it can extend and detune the antenna.
    - insulators shed water
  - {{<qrz NA3CW>}}, Chuck:
    - wet rope will drain energy and effect efficiency
    - 100W won't matter much
    - some are a foot-long and heavy porcelain, etc
  - {{<qrz WA3VEE>}}, Ron:
    - ice on the cord with no insulator will detune the antenna
- {{<qrz W3MFB>}}, Mike:
  - can you co-phase 20M or 40M vertical antennas? is it then directional?
  - {{<qrz WA3VEE>}}, Ron:
    - directional AM broadcast antennas are co-phased.
    - yes it can be done for ham frequencies
  - {{<qrz KA3KFT>}}, John:
    - worked at an AM station
    - 3 towers tuned and phased for a 4-leaf pattern
    - between 1/4 and 1/2 wave apart
    - varying current would allow steering of the signal
    - at the base of each tower, there was a tuning network.
    - largest node pointed toward the licensed city.
    - null pointed toward a city with a conflicting station.
  - {{<qrz WA3VEE>}}, Ron:
    - envision throwing rocks nearly at the same time into a pond
      and how the waves interact
  - {{<qrz KD3EE>}}, John:
    - check out Coastal Waves and Wires for recent examples
      of vertical yagis and vertical phased arrays.
  - {{<qrz WA3VEE>}}, Ron:
    - directional "protection" has been done for a long time
    - pay attention to the lengths and velocity factors of the coax
  - {{<qrz KC3SQI>}}, Wayne:
    - besides AM steering, check out the WVUD FM transmitter
      at University of Delaware.
    - had to go to phased array to protect another station
      when they jumped to 5kW
  - {{<qrz W3GMS>}}, Joe:
    - in large AM stations:
      - phaser is the equipment that changes phase for steering
      - "dog house" is the tuner the bottom of each tower
    - phasing for our-sized project is done by varying the length of coax

<!--more-->
