---
title: "985 Workbench: 2025-08-25"
subtitle:
date: 2025-08-25
tags: ['985', 'workbench', 'w3gms', 'net']
draft: false
---

### My Weeks in Radio
- new callsign a couple weeks ago: KC3WWC -> KD3EE
  - spent a day updating callsign everywhere
    - websites
    - local software
    - radio gear
    - still finding updates to make today
- all POTA activations
  - travel and local
  - mostly FT8/FT4, but also some CW and SSB
  - new callsign proved quick to key
    and understood right away
  - tried small magnetic loop and EFHW
  - usually 2W
  - almost ruined one activation
    - sweat on the laptop touchpad caused it to be flake out
      may want to bring a backup mouse or be more careful

### Others
- WA3VEE, Ron:
  - troubleshooting his AllStar node with Joe's help
  - suspecting the network beyond the hotspot
  - diagnosing which tower he's using with software on iphone
  - replacing his van
- NA3CW, Chuck:
  - congrats KD3EE on new callsign
  - AMPM pre-net
  - working on trailer project
- W3FES, Fred:
  - building small antennas for scanner listening
- W3QP, Tim:
  - back from a week in VA
  - SOTA
  - lots of bugs
  - encountered a mother bear and cubs on one summit.
    they left on their own accord
  - when near sugar grove (government)
    - he thought his radio was malfunctioning
- WA3KFT, John:
  - net control and participant on various 6m and 2m nets
- KB3ILS, Keith:
  - 30M CW contact to
    - ZL (New Zealand)
    - Netherlands
    - both QRP EF wire
  - wire in a tree
    - smooth CW on a bug to operator in west virginia
- KC3OOK, Bill:
  - hosted the roundtable last thursday
  - hosted welfare net on sunday
  - Joe's tower tomorrow
- W3JAM, Jeff:
  - adding desks to "studio a"
  - 45-degree antenna mounts to work both horizontal and vertical
- KC3SQI, Wayne:
  - working on antenna mast

### Questions
- KC3SQI, Wayne:
  - What's the best plug to seal up a 3/8-inch hole
    on the wrong side of a weatherized box?
  - WA3KFT, John:
    - 2 flat plates and a bolt through the middle
    - plus some caulk
  - WA3VEE, Ron:
    - there may be a rubber gasket plug, but those may be too big.
      - hubble wideman for plugs
  - KC3NZT, Harvey:
    - bulkhead blanking plugs
  - W8CRW, CR:
    - epoxy and a backer
- KV3JGB, Matt:
  - For an antenna running into the tree
    and a feed line are on the ground,
    how can he run it to be out of the way,
    so he doesn't need to move it
    to mow?
  - WA3VEE, Ron:
    - could it be buried?
    - could you run a "messenger wire" to keep it overhead to the tree?
  - W3QP, Tim:
    - ran a bit of conduit underground
  - KC3NZT, Harvey:
    - temporary becomes permanent
    - shallow bury when ground was soft
  - NA3CW, Chuck:
    - if you do bury it,
      rope in the conduit,
      and exposed can wick moisture out.
    - conduit is never wide enough after a while
  - KC3SQI, Wayne:
    - has buried line for 6 years now, no trouble.
    - existing feed line can be used to pull the next line.
  - KV3JGB, Matt:
    - thanks for the suggestion underground and in the air

<!--more-->
