---
title: "985 Workbench: 2025-02-24"
subtitle:
date: 2025-02-24
tags: ['985', 'w3gms', 'workbench', 'net']
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio
- I attended the breakfast
  and heard a little about the National Traffic System from Vic.
  I've added some nets to my calendar.
- I'm in the logs for N4T,
  the DXpedition to Dry Tortugas with some locals.
  - CW and on FT8
- My favorite radios have new 3rd-party software:
  - Quansheng HTs got F4WHN 4.0 which includes a code fix I contributed
  - X6100 got R1CBU 0.29.2 which has fixes for handful of bugs I reported
- I continue playing with some mobile Winlink and APRS
- EFRW was being flaky with high SWR.
  - Cleaned all the connections outside.
  - It's an unprotected temporary build with alligator clips.

### Others
- KC3SCY, Luke: listening to some CW
- NA3CW, Chuck:
  - Led the breakfast.
  - 75M PM/AM Net
  - A professor of chemistry in CT
    liked our answer on the workbench about ice on the antenna.
    We never know who's listening, so make it good.
- KB3ILS, Keith:
  - Straight key work since field day
  - POTA, State QSO Parties
  - 15-minute ragchew QSOs
  - Slower with the straight key, so people don't "recognize" him.
  - ARRL DX contest: used paddles, boring exchanges.
  - Heard his own QSO in a youtube video
- KC3RFG, Jim:
  - Working on mobile antenna to clean it up.
- AF3Z, Jim:
  - Jumped up from 35WPM to 40WPM in weekly practice sked, and it was OK.
  - Working on heathkit project
- KC3TYX, Vic:
  - 2M nets
  - Breakfast
  - Another ARRL DX contest coming up this weekend, giving it a try.
- AB3AP, Mike:
  - Breakfast
  - Learning about direction of arrival for signals
    to locate signals of interest.
  - Some CW, but slower than Jim.
- W3QP, Tim:
  - Planning trips
  - Presentation for Pottstown Club
- K3FHA, John:
  - Repairing a 65-year-old radio.
  - Implementing a service bulletin to fix AGC.
  - Some HF nets
- WA3KFT, John:
  - Digging up lost gear
    - Halicrafters S38
    - Heathkit VF1 VFO
  - 6M and 2M work
- KC3OOK, Bill:
  - All the 985 activities
  - Simplex Net: 39 check-ins
  - Spending every day in the ham shack
- AA3LH, Leon:
  - Worked West Coast on 10m.
- KB3AIS, Tim:
  - Purchased ICOM 2730a for portable radio.
- KC3YIG, Dave:
  - Breakfast
  - Simplex Net
  - Building some shelves for the radio desk.
  - Contacted N4T on SSB on 20M and 40M.
- W3MOW, Mike:
  - Good to hear everyone's favorite interests and achievements in radio.

### Questions
- AF3Z, Jim:
  - NV102 SSB CW transciever
    - CW is working
    - SSB isn't going out
    - He has the oscilliscope for tracing,
      10x probe for attennuation, AC coupled.
    - Looking at all the parts,
      what is the best way to couple with the circuit
      without interfering with the circuit?
  - WA3KFT, John:
    - 10X probe should have helped
    - There is a 100X probe with very high impedance
    - Make a 2-3 turn coil of solid wire around a pencil,
      attach it to a bit of coax,
      poke around with that.
  - NA3CW, Chuck:
    - Put a little capacitance (2-3pF) in series on the end of the probe.
  - KC3SQI, Wayne:
    - Another way to make a "sniffer probe":
      small wire loop on a piece of circuit board.
  - K3FHA, John:
    - Since SSB isn't working, check that audio is getting
      into the modulator.
- AA3LH, Leon:
  - He has a 45-ft vertical antenna, end-fed from the bottom.
    It's recommended to add an automatic tuner close to the antenna.
    Is 7-8 feet too far away?
    14 gauge, 25ft, red/black twin lead to provide power.
    Is that too long?
  - NA3CW, Chuck:
    - power delivery is OK.
    - 7-8 feet is fine. It becomes part of the antenna.
  - KC3SQI, Wayne:
    - 14 gauge is fine for auto tuner
    - Agree with Chuck
- KD3AIS, Tim:
  - ICOM 2730A can hear the repeater, but no one can hear him.
  - W3MOW, Mike:
    - Thinking it's a hardware issue, or is it programming?
  - KD3AIS, Mike:
    - Thinks the hardware is good, and the programming is good.
    - Has programmed previous radios for the repeater
  - W3QP, Tim:
    - Has a couple ICOMs.
    - Do you see the frequency shift while TX-ing? (It should.)
    - Try turning off the receive tone.
  - KD3AIS, Tim:
    - No receive tone programmed
    - Sees the shift
  - KC3SQI, Wayne:
    - Do you have RTSystems or other software to program it?
    - He could not program the same radio without using the RT-Systems software.
  - KD3AIS, Tim:
    - Has not yet used programming cable or software.
  - KC3SQI, Wayne:
    - There should be lots of indicators on the display for every
      little feature that's enabled.
  - KC3WWC, John:
    - Debug from simplex,
      then use other repeaters,
      then check configs for 985.
  - W3MOW, Mike:
    - From reading the manual, 985's split tones could be a challenge.
  - W8CRW, CR:
    - On ICOMs, the correct tone setting is T-TSQL / 100.
  - KC3RFG, Jim:
    - Had that radio years ago,
      and programmed it the first time with RT-Systems.
- N3RT, Jay:
  - Meritron amplifier, trying to hit Christmas Island on 15M CW.
  - He flipped it on and it popped the fuse on the 240V line.
  - Can he remove tubes to isolate and test the power supply?
  - Are the ceramic fuses slow blow?
  - NA3CW, Chuck:
    - Do you have HV experience?
  - N3RT, Jay:
    - Has replaced some things, but always operated with the cover on.
  - NA3CW, Chuck:
    - No problem turning it on with tubes removed.
    - Check manual about the fuse
    - Could be a complex interaction causing the pop of the fuse,
      like start-up resistor being blown.
- About my outside connections:
  - WA3KFT, John:
    - There's a conducting grease for head bolts of an engine that he uses
      for outside connections,
      plus black plastic tape
  - NA3CW, Chuck:
    - Don't get _any_ on the dialectric (short)

<!--more-->
