---
title: "985 Workbench: 2025-11-10"
subtitle:
date: 2025-11-10
tags: []
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio
- upgraded my meshtastic nodes: faster bluetooth communication
- new 3rd party firmware on the Radtel RT-880G
  - nice scanning, HF receive, spectrum analyzer
  - APRS beacon
  - used the spectrum analyzer to observe which of my car remotes
    were working and which needed a battery
- flagpole with my yagi snapped in the wind
  - have a cool video of it whipping around in the wind and breaking
  - digital until I repair that
  - i have a military surplus mast I may try next
- Playing a little 1W FT8, turned it up to 4W to get to Chile
### Others
- {{<qrz WA3VEE>}}, Ron:
  - Computers in place for logging on Winter Field Day
- {{<qrz KC3SCY>}}, Luke:
  - [AWA Bruce Kelley QSO Party](https://www.antiquewireless.org/homepage/bruce-kelley-1929-qso-party)
    using 1929 and before gear
    - using a Type 10
    - made 21 contacts in this first weekend
  - using Drake R4A as receiver
  - building another 1929 transmitter
- {{<qrz NA3CW>}}, Chuck:
  - antenna survey at the field day site
    - 2 80m antennas on the same axis
    - 2 40m antennas on the same axis
    - each for CW and phone.
    - no more patch panel needed
    - antennas will run up and down with halyards
- {{<qrz KC3OOK>}}, Bill:
  - South control for Simplex Net on Saturday
    - learning to use a beam for the net
- {{<qrz AF3Z>}}, Jim:
  - 10M CW at 1pm in the afternoon
    - chatted with Colorado and Marshall Islands
    - vertical dipole
- {{<qrz KA3GLI>}}, David:
  - measured outside for a wire antenna and run of coax
  - setting up a listening station
  - need to build an unun for the new antenna
- {{<qrz KD3BWL>}}, Frank:
  - using new rig to work repeaters in Chester County
- {{<qrz W3DIB>}}, Greg:
  - Good to hear about computers for Field Day
### Questions
- {{<qrz KC3OOK>}}, Bill:
  - He has new test equipment from Ron,
    but needs BNC cables for it.
    What cable/connectors should he get?
  - {{<qrz WA3VEE>}}, Ron:
    - You want 50 ohm cables for radio work.
    - TV would be 75 ohms
    - 6ft BNC-BNC plus some adapters
  - {{<qrz NA3CW>}}, Chuck:
    - Avoid cheap cables: poorly shielded/crimped
    - Only trusted the cables he made
    - RG58 is fine for anything 100W or below.
  - {{<qrz WA3KFT>}}, John:
    - SO-239 with adapter to BNC works fine
    - stranded center conductor will be nice and flexible
  - {{<qrz KC3OOK>}}, Bill:
    - will make some of his own cables
- {{<qrz AA3LH>}}, Leon:
  - Likes dipoles, center-fed with ladder line.
    Should there be a couple twists in the ladder line?
  - {{<qrz NA3CW>}}, Chuck:
    - twists are recommended to keep it from catching
      much RFI in receive.
      it exposes both conductors to the noise,
      so it balances.
    - good signals on balanced lines are differential
  - {{<qrz AF3Z>}}, Jim:
    - twists also help with wind
    - he has a twist ever 2-3 feet.
  - {{<qrz NA3CW>}}, Chuck:
    - be careful to not cause crossovers
  - {{<qrz AA3LH>}}, Leon:
    - has 25 feet and about 4 twists.
    - it flops in the wind some
- {{<qrz AF3Z>}}, Jim:
  - at field day site, each set of antennas are "coaxial",
    so in a line, end-to-end, to give them the same direction,
    but minimal interaction.
  - {{<qrz W3GMS>}}, Joe:
    - antennas will be orthogonal (perpendicular)
      - 80M will run east-west to transmit north/south
      - 40M will run north-south to transmit east-west
<!--more-->
