---
title: "985 Workbench: 2026-02-02"
subtitle:
date: 2026-02-02
tags: [985, workbench, w3gms, net, dx, ft8, aprs]
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio
- PSKFest 3rd place in QRP class (of 4 people)
- New R1CBU 0.32.2
  - IF shift feature to move birdies away from your signal
- 2W FT8 to Belgium and back on 40M
- EFHW high SWR, but tuner deals with it
  - too cold to go out to investigate much
  - wonder if it's water and ice on the uninsulated rope
### Others
- {{<qrz KN3I>}}, John:
  - radio on the workbench for repairs
- {{<qrz WA3VEE>}}, Ron:
  - back to Drexel to help get their station back on the air
    - Kiana, a student.
  - {{<qrz K3DTS>}} is closer to having liability insurance for classes
  - working with the balloon team from Drexel and another High School
    - APRS for tracking
    - launch from Nottinghill Farm Park
- {{<qrz W3SCY>}}, Luke:
  - working on CW, 20wpm
  - WFD 2 weeks ago
  - checked into AMPM net on 3835kHz, Sunday, 04:30pm.
- {{<qrz NA3CW>}}, Chuck:
  - PMAM Net: heard {{<qrz KN3I>}}, John and {{<qrz W3SCY>}}, Luke
- {{<qrz KC3OOK>}}, Bill:
  - net control for various nets
  - enjoying crimp coax connectors
- {{<qrz W3KZG>}}, Scott:
  - refurbishing some export 10/11/12M export radios to keep and sell
- {{<qrz WA3KFT>}}, John:
  - various nets
  - lots of check-ins on AWA net, 7237kHz
- {{<qrz KD3AIS>}}, Tim:
  - back from a trip to Germany and Netherlands
  - Looking forward to Ron's classes
- {{<qrz AF3Z>}}, Jim:
  - SKCC anniversary event is done: {{<qrz K3Y>}} here in the states
    - helped coordinate 17 operators
    - ~4100 contacts
    - 1363 unique operators
    - 300 contacts personally
    - US sweep: 9 call areas + Alaska, Hawaii, PR
- {{<qrz AA3LH>}}, Leon:
  - spoke to Costa Rica
- {{<qrz W3DEN>}}, Dennis:
  - Just moved to West Chester
  - in a retirement community, so antenna restricted
- {{<qrz W3MOW>}}, Mike:
  - fired up raspberry pi hotspot for DMR
  - new vehicle, so radio not setup in mobile yet.
### Questions
- {{<qrz WA3VEE>}}, Ron:
  - Students are using APRS to track balloons they launch.
  - using a kenwood HT and phones to track APRS.
  - suggest maybe a beam for tracking it directly
  - What is the range of APRS?
  - Suggestions for tracking?
  - {{<qrz W3KZG>}}, Scott:
    - check with Corbin, K3HXW.
  - {{<qrz KD3EE>}}, John:
    - it's packet radio, so relayed by digipeaters
    - bridged to the internet, so reliably visible on aprs.fi
    - btech uv-pro is a great, inexpensive radio.
    - seeing DC to Williamsport to New Jersey on my map here
    - I have a fixed antenna for APRS 30 ft in a tree
- {{<qrz AA3LH>}}, Leon:
  - Un-Un at the end of an EFHW, how do they get away without a counterpoise?
  - {{<qrz WA3KFT>}}, John:
    - Needs a good earth ground to be the other half of the antenna
      - stake, water pipe, etc.
      - need a radiating element and a counterpoise
  - {{<qrz KC3RFG>}}, Jim:
    - started with end-fed antennas
    - if you don't install a counterpoise, it'll use the shield of your coax
      as the other half of your antenna
    - choke the coax before it enters the house or gets to the radio
    - proper counterpoise helps avoid RF on the coax
  - {{<qrz NA3CW>}}, Chuck:
    - he wrote an article on the 985 website
    - not all end-feds are horizontal, any vertical antenna is an end-fed
    - running low power, you don't need to worry as much about return RF.
    - vertical whips are end-fed
    - horizontal random wire is an end-fed.
    - ground plane or radials of a vertical is a counterpoise
    - person serves as counterpoise on an HT
  - {{<qrz AA3LH>}}, Leon:
    - always uses speaker-wire counterpoises with ham stick verticals
- {{<qrz WA3VEE>}}, Ron:
  - Has anyone interfaced a weather station to NOAA
    via APRS or via internet connection?
  - {{<qrz W3MOW>}}, Mike:
    - Is this the same integration like Weather Underground?
  - {{<qrz WA3VEE>}}, Ron:
    - Weather Underground and all those other services.
    - Ground Truth Weather
  - {{<qrz W3KZG>}}, Scott:
    - Dylan, {{<qrz K3DZN>}}, has a weather station at the house
      that's all linked up.
  - {{<qrz KC3OOK>}}, Bill:
    - Have you bought the Davis View weather station yet
    - It has lots of modules
    - APRS is a module, good for emergency service
    - Can run on a RPi or small computer depending how much you want to do
