---
title: "985 Workbench: 2026-02-16"
subtitle:
date: 2026-02-16
tags: [985, workbench, net, w3gms]
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio
- CQ WW RTTY contest
  - 70 contacts in one afternoon
  - a little antenna maintenance in the middle
- using pulleys in the tree for cleaner rope work in trees,
  learned from field day setup
### Others
- {{<qrz WA3VEE>}}, Ron:
  - worked with Drexel club to get them back on the air next month
    - lapsed license
  - all the antennas off the garage to fit in parking garages
  - offering a tech class licensing course
  - offering tech class and VE session for Drexel as well
  - developing a General course
- {{<qrz K3KB>}}, Alan:
  - planning a move and getting rid of some things
    - not a builder/experimenter anymore
    - may bring some things to the breakfast
  - new retirement community location will have limitations
  - was a pretty active home brewer
- {{<qrz KC3YSM>}}, Steve:
  - 40M is hopping
- {{<qrz AF3Z>}}, Jim:
  - SKCC event this past weekend
    - used PennTech TR45L, QRP CW
    - 40M, 80M, 20M
- {{<qrz W3KZG>}}, Scott:
  - sorting and selling some radio gear
  - doing repairs again
  - printing some power-pole mounts to retrofit radios
- {{<qrz KC3OOK>}}, Bill:
  - Nets
  - 985 has been active
  - Thanks Chuck for teaching PL-259 plugs.
    - some factory connections were loose
- {{<qrz KA3GLI>}}, David:
  - bought the ARRL Grounding and Bonding Book
  - also got an 80M extension for his EFHW
  - picked up a heat gun for building teh efhw
  - purchased a replacement fan for another VHF/UHF rig
- {{<qrz NA3CW>}}, Chuck:
  - never had good luck with factory-installed connectors
  - always does his own
  - PMAM net
  - testing Joe's tuner at 1KW.
- {{<qrz KC3RFG>}}, Jim:
  - check in on ECARS mobile
- {{<qrz WA3KFT>}}, John:
  - fighting coax, intermittent connections
  - maybe a broken coax switch
  - "Waters" manufacturer is long gone
  - need to find a worthy replacement
- {{<qrz KC3SQI>}}, Wayne:
  - need to reassemble 10M antenna when the weather improves
- {{<qrz W3GMS>}}, Joe:
  - Dylan is working on new broadcastify connection
    - it's currently just humming and not working yet
### Questions
- {{<qrz K3KB>}}, Alan:
  - Looking for recommendations for a single wire antenna for an HOA.
    He may be able to stretch a wire to another building about 80ft away.
  - {{<qrz KC3SQI>}}, Wayne:
    - look at EFRW with a tuner
    - could do an inverted-L
  - {{<qrz AF3Z>}}, Jim:
    - Random is not really random.
    - avoid resonant to be able to multiband.
  - {{<qrz KC3NZT>}}, Harvey:
    - likes resonant EFHW
    - has a 78-ft that may fit
    - hit the tuner for the other bands
    - radiates from the center, so the height
      of the ends doesn't matter so much.
  - {{<qrz KD3EE>}}, John:
    - lots of fun to be had as a builder/experimenter
    - 80M EFHW is 133ft, 40M EFHW will be 66ft.
    - 73ft is a EFRW.
  - {{<qrz K3KB>}}, Alan:
    - don't give me too much credit as a builder
    - lots of it has faded away
- {{<qrz NA3CW>}}, Chuck:
  - Listening to CW on 40M late at night,
    there are 3 stations sending really fast, messy, swinging bug CW.
    It's hard to copy. Does anyone know much about it?
  - {{<qrz W3DIB>}}, Greg:
    - encryption by syncopation
  - {{<qrz AF3Z>}}, Jim:
    - may have heard it
    - can't copy it either
    - sloppy encryption?
  - {{<qrz K3KB>}}, Alan:
    - brother used to listen to a station broadcasting scripture
      to go to sleep
    - is this broadcast or amateur communication?
  - {{<qrz NA3CW>}}, Chuck:
    - has heard of "great lake swing",
      but that is still copyable
- {{<qrz K3EMI>}}, Randy:
  - Bringing up a big power supply with a variac,
    the power supply has a meter on it that sticks in the winter
    probably due to static charge.
    touching it with a wet finger to discharge it releases it.
  - {{<qrz WA3KFT>}}, John:
    - put a wire mesh over the front of the meter and ground it,
      hardware cloth with 1/4-inch squares.
  - {{<qrz NA3CW>}}, Chuck:
    - seen it lots of times over the years.
    - wipe it with a dryer sheet
  - {{<qrz WA3KFT>}}, Ron:
    - has a vis-meter that does it as well
    - tribo-electric effect in polystyrene
    - rubber band a grounding strap mesh to part of the face
  - {{<qrz KC3RFG>}}, Jim:
    - laying a wet paper towel on LCD helps those displays when they're stuck
      in cold winter
  - {{<qrz KC3SQI>}}, Wayne:
    - mix water and soap to spray on it
  - {{<qrz W3KZG>}}, Scott:
    - staticide spray
    - static guard (tm)
  - {{<qrz NA3CW>}}, Chuck:
    - anything you try, be careful of solvents in a spray
    - test it in as spot
  - {{<qrz K3EMI>}}, Randy:
    - thinking of staticide from digikey
    - likes the idea of wetting a dryer sheet
    - new problem in this house and shack

<!--more-->
