---
title: "21 Tech Net: 2026-03-01"
subtitle:
date: 2026-03-01
tags: ['21', 'ka3tkw', 'technet', 'net', 'hf', 'antenna']
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio
- On a vacation cruise, so no radios allowed.
- Wire was down when I got home,
  so I got to throw it again.
  I threw it with a pulley and halyard this time: 42ft up.
- I built a T2LT flowerpot antenna on PVC pipe
  and pulled into a tree.
  It replaced a slim jim built from ladder line.
- I was looking for that Iran station,
  but didn't really hear anything.
- I got me spinning through other 49M shortwave
  and looking up the station locations.
- On the subject of open source: ft2.
  - When you write code (or a book), you have copyright automatically.
  - You choose the license.
  - GPL license says: "I provided the source code for free,
    so you can modify or build upon it,
    and when you distribute a derivative work, you need to afford
    your users the same privilege: distribute your modified source."
### Others
- {{<qrz K3EA>}}, Greg:
  - contests
    - saw NA RTTY QSO Party
    - state QSO parties
    - next weekend: ARRL SSB contest next weekend: new countries
    - https://contestcalendar.com/
  - DX report
    - good for HF propagation
    - quiet space weather
    - http://spaceweather.com
    - Bouvet Island, {{<qrz 3Y0K>}}, https://3Y0K.com
    - Nigeria
    - N3GK website to see
  - original hamclock server has been duplicated
    to keep original hardware working
    - hamclock.com for instructions
  - QSL cards in the mail:
    - Equatorial Guinnea, Africa.
    - Anguila
    - Ethiopia
  - {{<qrz KA3TKW>}}, Tom:
    - thanks for update on ham clock
- {{<qrz WQ8M>}}, Scotty:
  - Parker, CO
  - IRLP
    - project is probably 30 years old
- {{<qrz VE3HOH>}}, Pete:
  - starting with meshtastic: 1 node found so far
  - considering NVIS dipole for 40M
- {{<qrz KA3TKW>}}, Tom:
  - Iran radio from London: 0300-1600UTC, 9800khz, otherwise 5885khz, and another
  - 9:55pm: starlink launch to the east/south
- {{<qrz N7JMS>}}, Jon:
  - FT2:
    - 8 QSOs during net
    - central africa
    - less sensitive
  - Meshtastic: use unlicensed mode, instead of licensed modes,
    so you can keep standard encryption.
- {{<qrz WA1SMG>}}, Matt:
  - cornwall townlhip
  - reviving an old lafayette receiver: crystal controlled
    - can be used for CW to satellites
- {{<qrz KC3VZU>}}, Bob:
  - marveling at the testing experience of older hams
    - drawing radio diagrams
    - 20wpm CW
- {{<qrz KC3RYQ>}}, Gary:
  - Yaesu 8135 with RT Systems: trying to get it programmed
- {{<qrz KD3AGU>}}, Richard:
  - first net in 2-3 months
*** Swap and Shop
- {{<qrz VE3HOH>}}, Pete:
  - Kenwood
  - Drake TR7s
- {{<qrz KA3TKW>}}:
  - 2-3 DX440 SW radios
  - some small Sony SW radios
  - RadioShack 10M mobiles

<!--more-->
