---
title: "985 Workbench: 2026-02-09"
subtitle:
date: 2026-02-09
tags: [985, workbench, net, w3gms]
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio
- SWR trouble with HF antenna last week
  was a bad connection outside the window
- Operating on RF, since I'm mobile on a hill
  after camera club meeting
- APRS radio went quiet, so my slim jim seems broken
### Others
- {{<qrz WA3VEE>}}, Ron:
  - hosting upgrade classes soon
  - look for article or whatever: "listening to jupiter"
- {{<qrz W3MFB>}}, Mike:
  - 10-10 contest over the past weekend
    - good conditions
    - Europe
- {{<qrz KC3OOK>}}, Bill:
  - working on sub-panel for ham shack
- {{<qrz W3KZG>}}, Scott:
  - doing radio repairs while it's cold out
  - installed radios in larger rolling rack: 30U
- {{<qrz KA3GLI>}}, David:
  - reading the W1MFB Antenna Notebook
  - building EFHW un-un
  - visited RadioShack in New Holland
- {{<qrz KC3NZT>}}, Harvey:
  - got online confirmation for Galapagos
- {{<qrz AA3LH>}}, Leon:
  - Roosters Net
  - working 80m and 40m, extra portion
  - will work on antennas next week when warm
- {{<qrz AF3Z>}}, Jim:
  - FYBO (Freeze Your Buns Off) QRP contest over the weekend
### Questions
- {{<qrz KC3OOK>}}, Bill: 
  - What's the difference between ceramic and plastic
    potentiometer trimmers?
  - {{<qrz WA3KFT>}}, John:
    - ceramic may be for VHF/UHF applications
    - moisture may detune a circuit being adjusted
  - {{<qrz W3KZG>}}, Scott:
    - he has cheap plastic kit with lots of sizes. it functions fine.
    - 6-8 plastic screwdrivers
    - cheap is fine for light use
  - {{<qrz NA3CW>}}, Chuck:
    - has plastic, never tried ceramic
    - materials matter for trimming variable capacitors
    - any material is fine for pots
  - {{<qrz WA3VEE>}}, Ron:
    - How sensitive are some of these circuits?
  - {{<qrz W3KZG>}}, Scott:
    - tools are non-conductive and non-inductive
    - some pots can be shorted
  - {{<qrz KN3I>}}, John:
    - GC Electronics kit should be really good; known name.
- {{<qrz AA3LH>}}, Leon:
  - He has a G5RV doublet for travel, and it tunes hard on 80M.
    If he added 10ft to each leg (51-ft legs to 61ft),
    would it help, and how would he need to adjust the 37-ft?
  - {{<qrz NA3CW>}}, Chuck:
    - simulate it
    - stay away from quarter wave feed lengths
    - probably ok with tuner
  - {{<qrz W3GMS>}}, Joe:
    - for the standard lengths, the impedance is around 50 ohms,
      so only needs the 1:1 balun.
    - may need to trim the ladder line
  - {{<qrz NA3CW>}}, Chuck:
    - G5RV is 3/2 wave for 20m, so it work well there + other bands.
    - extra length will detune it for its intended use
  - {{<qrz W3GMS>}}, Joe:
    - look into the "improved G5RV" - better tune
    - adjusting probably won't get you much
    - add more open wire line and eliminate coax,
      and it'll be an efficient doublet
- {{<qrz KB3ZIM>}}, Bob:
  - Did anyone work AM Rally? He got 30 contacts and had a blast:
    10m, 40m, roundtables
  - KN3I, John: just a few hours in the afternoon on 40m
- {{<qrz KC3NZT>}}, Harvey:
  - Testing diodes in a rectifier before a coil:
    - Had to measure the current to calculate the resistance,
      since he couldn't isolate anything.
    - Is there a better way to test coil resistance through the diodes?
    - How do diodes fail?
  - {{<qrz WA3VEE>}}, Ron:
    - Diodes usually fail shorted
  - {{<qrz WA3KFT>}}, John:
    - diodes change resistance with the amount of current
    - isolate the diode and use DC with known resistor
    - measure resistive drop across diode
  - {{<qrz W3KZT>}}, Scott:
    - need to isolate diode from the coil to measure
    - resistance in coil

<!--more-->
