---
title: "985 Workbench: 2026-01-05"
subtitle:
date: 2026-01-05
tags: ['985', 'w3gms', 'workbench', 'net']
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio
- 80M EFHW today for better receive to place 21.6M-long EFRW
  - realized it may be better listening as it's resonant
  - Random wire may be "noisy", because tuned other than what I want to hear
- worked some contests:
  - [PSK Fest](https://www.podxs070.com/o7o-club-sponsored-contests/pskfest):
    15 contacts
  - [RTTY Roundup](https://www.arrl.org/rtty-roundup): 70 contacts
### Others
- {{<qrz W8CRW>}}, CR:
  - 985 nets
  - Bill's for antenna building + computer fest
- {{<qrz AA3LH>}}, Leon:
  - playing with 1:1 baluns on G5RV
  - seeing different antenna performance through the week
  - quicksilver balun is doing really well
- {{<qrz WA3VEE>}}, Ron:
  - happy new year
  - field day work this week
    - wednesday meeting
    - thursday building
  - RPi 3B+ for an allstar node
  - 2 VE sessions:
    - Passed a local student for tech license: Kiana
    - Passed 8 more on Saturday
  - If you're an extra, see about being a VE.
- {{<qrz KC3SCY>}}, Luke:
  - building a 1929 transmitter and power supply on contract: basically done.
  - 75M AM recently
  - At Joe's for winter break to build a desk riser, etc.
- {{<qrz KC3RFG>}}, Jim:
  - built a clear, stackable case with a a fan for his ham clock.
- {{<qrz NA3CW>}}, Chuck
  - final testing of Joe's tuner project
    - building a wooden test stand for maintenance of the tuner
- {{<qrz W3KZG>}}, Scott:
  - checked out field day site
- {{<qrz KC3MAI>}}, Joe:
  - visited Bill's for dipole build
- {{<qrz KD3AIS>}}, Tim:
  - visited Bill's for dipole build
- {{<qrz W3MFB>}}, Mike:
  - 80M DX nets and contacts
  - using remote web-SDRs to see how far away he here's his net contacts:
    many states away, maybe even Europe
- {{<qrz KC3NZT>}}, Harvey:
  - played with computers at Bill's
- {{<qrz KB3ILS>}}, Keith:
  - WFD chairman
  - Winter Field Day
    - Jan 24-25
    - active planning, building, testing
    - 14 people at Bill's
    - master class in soldering dipoles
    - Thursday will be installing antennas
  - Working straight key night, including AF3Z, Jim.
- {{<qrz WA3KFT>}}, John:
  - stranded wire is nice, but solder joints of stranded can make a weak point
  - preferring copper-clad steel wire far antennas.
  - has stayed up for 20 years before needing replacement
### Questions
- {{<qrz KD3EE>}}, John:
  I want a 2-meter antenna to build that's simple, sturdy,
  and I can pull up into a tree.
  I have the 1/4-wave ground plane and a slim jim already.
  Flowerpot antenna looks cool.
  Suggestions?
  - {{<qrz WA3KFT>}}, John:
    - j-pole of copper pipe: tee, elbow, pipe
      - plans everywhere
      - sweat solder some joints
  - {{<qrz WA3VEE>}}, Ron:
    - X50 that already has the ground plane radials
  - {{<qrz W3MFB>}}, Mike:
    - use a bit of conduit as a counterweight
    - pull a 25-foot antenna up into a tree above
      the mount point on that conduit.
  - {{<qrz KC3NZT>}}, Harvey:
    - see W6NBC's website for home-made antennas
      - including slot design made of aluminum foil tape and pvc
      - delta loop for a bit of directional gain
  - {{<qrz KC3RFG>}}, Jim:
    - second the j-pole: rugged
    - pipe is thick for better bandwidth
  - {{<qrz KD3EE>}}, John:
    - Mike: i love the idea of hoisting above the mount point
    - Harvey: I have all those pieces here: i can have something by day break!
- {{<qrz KD3AIS>}}, Tim:
  - Why can it be heard on the digital side?
  - {{<qrz W3DIB>}}, Greg:
    - Yes, you are hearing the intermod on digital.
    - echolink/allstar is external to the repeater, not integrated,
      so that radio is hearing the intermod.
  - {{<qrz W3GMS>}}, Joe:
    - You should not hear intermod for digital people.
    - 146.385 receive audio is sent to a simplex link,
      which is sent to Joe's house,
      then into Allstar node to the internet.
    - People connecting via digital, goes to node at Joe's, processed,
      then sent up the simplex link to the repeater.
    - People connecting through digital _shouldn't_ exhibit intermod.
  - {{<qrz NA3CW>}}, Chuck:
    - Those people you thought were digital, may have been analog.
  - {{<qrz W3DIB>}}, Greg:
    - technically, if a digital person is listening to another digital person,
      it's just a VOIP call, no RF really needed.
- {{<qrz W3MFB>}}, Mike:
  - What's the history of an HF radio that's been "MARS-modded",
    and what's its purpose?
  - {{<qrz WA3KFT>}}, John:
    - MARS frequencies are near, but outside the HAM bands
    - In some radios, like IC-706,
      you remove a diode
      to allow it to transmit _anywhere_.
    - Make a ham radio able to transmit on any frequency.
  - {{<qrz WA3VEE>}}, Ron:
    - MARS = Military Auxiliary Radio System
  - {{<qrz W3GMS>}}, Joe:
    - commercial radios sold are not allowed
      to transmit outside amateur band for "type acceptance"
  - {{<qrz NA3CW>}}, Chuck:
    - big manufacturers sell lots more gear beyond ham operators.
    - those radios can be used by other people
    - keep the average "appliance operator" from wandering out of band.
  - {{<qrz W3MFB>}}, Mike:
    - Understand the motivation to make it difficult.
      It's illegal to work outside band on a radio not type-accepted
      in those bands.
- {{<qrz KC3NZT>}}, Harvey:
  - How do existing filters work when out of band?
  - {{<qrz NA3CW>}}, Chuck:
    - Yes, they still pass through existing filters,
      so maybe not very clean.

<!--more-->
