---
title: "985 Workbench: 2026-01-12"
subtitle:
date: 2026-01-12
tags: ['985', 'w3gms', 'net', 'workbench']
draft: false
---

### My Week in Radio
- RTTY Round Up a week ago got me Oregon,
  the last state I needed for all 50 states
  for this current callsign
- Strung up the 80M EFHW, found a lower SWR
  with counterpoise removed.
### Others
- {{<qrz W1RC>}}, Mike:
  - looking for a 2M transverter for his Elecraft radio
  - getting Yaesu Fusion working to check-in to a net
    - doesn't like the audio so much
- {{<qrz W8CRW>}}, CR:
  - helping chuck and george at the field day site on thursday
- {{<qrz K3EMI>}}, Randy:
  - putting up an OCF dipole on the roof in nice weather
  - coax is super-stiff
- {{<qrz KC3SCY>}}, Luke:
  - setup the new riser for his desk
  - almost done building a power supply for a transmitter he built
  - some CW
  - excited for WFD
- {{<qrz K9CAN>}}, Kris:
  - from Eugene OR
  - hosting a winter field day site on a mountain
  - working on a new antenna project
    - multiband
    - modular
    - 3d printing parts for it
    - doublet pieces
- {{<qrz NA3CW>}}, Chuck:
  - Thursday work session at field day site
    - 9:30am-dark
    - got ropes and pulleys into trees
    - next up
      - launch the dipoles
      - service the beams
      - saturday
      - cold and  dry
  - Joe's tuner is coming alive
    - steppers working in one direction
      and chattering in the other
    - feedback POTs reading fine
- {{<qrz KC3OOK>}}, Bill:
  - net control for Simplex Net and for Welfare Net
- {{<qrz W3KZG>}}, Scott:
  - organizing shack
  - repairing and updating an old export 10M rig
  - preparing trailer for field day
- {{<qrz W3QP>}}, Tim:
  - SOTA trips coming up in February
- {{<qrz AF3Z>}}, Jim:
  - SKCC
    - scheduling operators
    - operated saturday and this afternoon
    - worked WA and CA
- {{<qrz KC3SQI>}}, Wayne:
  - need to drop the new mast to fix 10M vertical dipole
  - TV pre-amp needs service too
- {{<qrz WA3VEE>}}, Ron:
  - Welcome {{<qrz K9CAN>}}, Kris.
  - Helped at Field Day site
    - watching George with the potato gun for shooting high lines into trees
    - Met a new ham, {{<qrz KD3CJH>}}, Kiana.
    - worked 8 countries testing beams at FD site
### Questions
- {{<qrz AF3Z>}}, Jim:
  - For WFD, How do we expect winter weather
    to effect electronics and radio gear?
    Any likely failures?
  - {{<qrz KC3SQI>}}, Wayne:
    - probably no worry here in PA.
    - in Rocky Mountains, CO, it did make a difference.
      - wire would kink but not unkink, breakage
  - {{<qrz NA3CW>}}, Chuck:
    - crystals and oscillators will have a temperature coefficient
    - transistors won't care
    - operators will be stiff
    - LCD screens will slow response, freeze and turn black
    - Li-ion batteries will degrade faster
    - starting generators can be difficult
  - {{<qrz W3KZG>}}, Scott:
    - trailer runs solely on battery + solar
    - 300Ah 13V battery
    - Summer field day used 18% of the battery to run FTD-10 radio for 2 days
  - {{<qrz KD3EE>}}, John:
    - batteries may need to be swapped to keep warm, like digital cameras
    - has seen LCD on radios stop updating in cold
  - {{<qrz W3QP>}}, Tim:
    - some batteries, like LiFePO, don't like to charge below freezing
  - {{<qrz AC2EG>}}, Eric:
    - Commercial-rated (not industrial) laptops
      can have trouble below 25F.
      maybe won't boot.
  - {{<qrz W8CRW>}}, CR:
    - LiFePO with a good BMS will keep it from charging
      in damaging (too cold) conditions
  - {{<qrz AF3Z>}}, Jim:
    - operating CW can be hard in the cold
- {{<qrz WA3VEE>}}, Ron:
  - For those in HOA,
    what might be a successful,
    inside antenna?
    Maybe not in the attic?
  - {{<qrz AF3Z>}}, Jim:
    - Do you really need to be horizontally polarized?
      - 10M dipole isn't huge.
      - mobile ground plane verticals
  - {{<qrz WA3VEE>}}, Ron:
    - horizontal will be best, but either way, I guess
    - wires taped to the ceiling?
  - {{<qrz AF3Z>}}, Jim:
    - magnetic loops?
    - 16 feet for a dipole?
  - {{<qrz W3KZG>}}, Scott:
    - 11M dipole hanging in a tree, 6ft from the ground:
      similar to hanging it from the ceiling.
      - split right off the coax, speaker wire
    - just try it
    - try a magmount vertical
    - try it on a balcony
    - near a window: magnetic loop
  - {{<qrz KC3SQI>}}, Wayne:
    - use 11M whip antennas, and trim it
    - wire across the wall
    - work from the balcony
    - drop a piece of wire from a higher floor
    - outside will avoid inside RFI
    - inside can mess with other electronics :)
  - {{<qrz W3KZG>}}, Scott:
    - may have an 11M whip to donate
  - {{<qrz W3QNZ>}}, Joe:
    - recycled a pota antenna made of scrap wire and a cobra head
    - moved it into the attic
  - {{<qrz KD3EE>}}, John:
    - may have a loop antenna to lend
    - run wires down the hallway or the loft
    - use lower power, digital modes, CW, weak signal for results

<!--more-->
